Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 76 Author: Khatri, S., Moore, W., Gibson, P. G., Leigh, R., Bourdin, A., Maspero, J., Barros, M., Buhl, R., Howarth, P., Albers, F. C., Bradford, E. S., Gilson, M., Price, R. G., Yancey, S. W. and Ortega, H. Year: 2019 Title: Assessment of the long-term safety of mepolizumab and durability of clinical response in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma Journal: J Allergy Clin Immunol Volume: 143 Issue: 5 Pages: 1742-1751.e7 Epub Date: 20181023 Date: May Short Title: Assessment of the long-term safety of mepolizumab and durability of clinical response in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma ISSN: 0091-6749 DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2018.09.033 Accession Number: 30359681 Keywords: Adult Anti-Asthmatic Agents/*therapeutic use Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/*therapeutic use Asthma/*drug therapy Double-Blind Method Drug-Related Side Effects and Adverse Reactions Eosinophilia/*drug therapy Eosinophils/*pathology Female Humans Injections, Subcutaneous Interleukin-5/antagonists & inhibitors Male Middle Aged Placebos Respiratory Tract Infections/etiology Surveys and Questionnaires Treatment Outcome Mepolizumab extension study long-term safety severe eosinophilic asthma Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mepolizumab has demonstrated favorable safety and efficacy profiles in placebo-controlled trials of 12 months' duration or less; however, long-term data are lacking. OBJECTIVE: We sought to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of mepolizumab in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma (SEA). METHODS: COLUMBA (Open-label Long Term Extension Safety Study of Mepolizumab in Asthmatic Subjects, NCT01691859) was an open-label extension study in patients with SEA previously enrolled in DREAM (Dose Ranging Efficacy And Safety With Mepolizumab in Severe Asthma, NCT01000506). Patients received 100 mg of subcutaneous mepolizumab every 4 weeks plus standard of care until a protocol-defined stopping criterion was met. Safety end points included frequency of adverse events (AEs), serious AEs, and AEs of special interest. Efficacy end points included annualized exacerbation rates, changes from baseline in Asthma Control Questionnaire 5 scores, and blood eosinophil counts. Immunogenicity was also assessed. RESULTS: Overall, 347 patients were enrolled for an average of 3.5 years (maximum, 4.5 years; total exposure, 1201 patient-years). On-treatment AEs were reported in 94% of patients (exposure-adjusted rate, 3688 events/1000 patient-years). The most frequently reported on-treatment AEs were respiratory tract infection, headache, bronchitis, and asthma worsening. Seventy-nine (23%) patients experienced 1 or more on-treatment serious AEs; there were 6 deaths, none of which were assessed as related to mepolizumab. For patients with 156 weeks or greater enrollment, the exacerbation rate was 0.74 events/y (weeks 0-156), a 56% reduction from the off-treatment period between DREAM and COLUMBA. For all patients, at the first postbaseline assessment, the mean Asthma Control Questionnaire 5 score was reduced by 0.47 points, and blood eosinophil counts were reduced by 78%, with similar improvements maintained throughout the study. The immunogenicity profile (8% anti-drug antibodies) was consistent with previous studies. CONCLUSION: These data support the long-term safety and efficacy of mepolizumab in patients with SEA. Notes: 1097-6825 Khatri, Sumita Moore, Wendy Gibson, Peter G Leigh, Richard Bourdin, Arnaud Maspero, Jorge Barros, Manuel Buhl, Roland Howarth, Peter Albers, Frank C Bradford, Eric S Gilson, Martyn Price, Robert G Yancey, Steven W Ortega, Hector Journal Article Multicenter Study Randomized Controlled Trial United States 2018/10/26 J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2019 May;143(5):1742-1751.e7. doi: 10.1016/j.jaci.2018.09.033. Epub 2018 Oct 23. Author Address: Respiratory Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio. Section of Pulmonary, Critical Care, Allergy and Immunologic Disease, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC. Priority Research Center for Healthy Lungs and Center of Excellence in Severe Asthma, University of Newcastle, Newcastle, Australia. Department of Medicine and Snyder Institute for Chronic Diseases, Cumming School of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Department of Respiratory Diseases PhyMedExp, University of Montpellier, Montpellier, France; H pital Arnaud de Villeneuve, CHU Montpellier, Montpellier, France. Fundaci n Cidea Allergy and Respiratory Research Unit, Buenos Aires, Argentina. School of Medicine, Universidad de Valparaiso, Valparaiso, Chile; Hospital Carlos van Buren, Valparaiso, Chile. Pulmonary Department, Mainz University Hospital, Mainz, Germany. Clinical and Experimental Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton and NIHR Respiratory Biomedical Research Unit, Southampton General Hospital, Southampton, United Kingdom; Global Respiratory Franchise, GSK House, Brentford, Middlesex, United Kingdom. Respiratory Medical Franchise, GSK, Research Triangle Park, NC. Respiratory Therapeutic Area, GSK, Research Triangle Park, NC. Respiratory Research and Development, GSK, Uxbridge, Middlesex, United Kingdom. Clinical Statistics, GSK, Stevenage, Hertfordshire, United Kingdom. Respiratory, Medical Affairs, GSK, La Jolla, Calif. Electronic address: hortega@gossamerbio.com. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng