Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 293 Author: Kallieri, M., Zervas, E., Katsoulis, K., Fouka, E., Porpodis, K., Samitas, K., Papaioannou, A. I., Kipourou, M., Gaki, E., Vittorakis, S., Markatos, M., Dimakou, K., Ampelioti, S., Koukidou, S., Makris, M., Ntakoula, M., Mitrova, M. H., Glynos, K., Antoniou, K. M., Gaga, M., Tzanakis, N., Markopoulou, K., Papakosta, D., Bakakos, P. and Loukides, S. Year: 2020 Title: Mepolizumab in Severe Eosinophilic Asthma: A 2-Year Follow-Up in Specialized Asthma Clinics in Greece: An Interim Analysis Journal: Int Arch Allergy Immunol Volume: 181 Issue: 8 Pages: 613-617 Epub Date: 20200622 Short Title: Mepolizumab in Severe Eosinophilic Asthma: A 2-Year Follow-Up in Specialized Asthma Clinics in Greece: An Interim Analysis ISSN: 1018-2438 DOI: 10.1159/000508559 Accession Number: 32570256 Keywords: Adrenal Cortex Hormones/therapeutic use Aged *Allergy and Immunology Anti-Asthmatic Agents/*therapeutic use Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/*therapeutic use Asthma/*drug therapy/epidemiology Disease Progression Female Follow-Up Studies Greece/epidemiology *Hospitals, Special Humans Male Middle Aged Prospective Studies Pulmonary Eosinophilia/*drug therapy/epidemiology Respiratory Function Tests Treatment Outcome Biologics Eosinophils Mepolizumab Real life Severe asthma Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Mepolizumab is a monoclonal antibody against IL-5 for the treatment of severe eosinophilic asthma. The aim of the current study was to present a predesigned interim analysis of the data of patients who have completed 1 year of therapy with mepolizumab. METHODS: This study is a prospective multicenter, noninterventional 2-year observational study and aims to describe the clinical benefit and safety profile of mepolizumab in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma. RESULTS: Compared to the year preceding the initiation of treatment, the annual rate of exacerbations decreased significantly, from 4.3   2.3 to 1.3   1.8; p < 0.0001. Forty-two patients received maintenance dose of oral corticosteroids (OCS) at baseline. From these patients at the end of 1 year of therapy with mepolizumab, 17 patients (40%) had achieved OCS discontinuation. A reduction in the median dose of OCS was also achieved. After 1 year of treatment with mepolizumab, the asthma control test score significantly increased from 16.3   3.7 to 21.2   3.8 (p < 0.0001). This marked clinical improvement was paralleled by a significant reduction of blood eosinophil count. All patients showed a considerable improvement of airflow limitation. In respect to adverse events of treatment with mepolizumab, 19 patients (27%) were recorded to have at least one such occurrence during their 1-year treatment. CONCLUSIONS: We have shown that in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma, 1 year of treatment with mepolizumab was safe, resulted in significant reduction of the annual exacerbation rate, reduction (or even discontinuation) of the needed dose of OCS, and improvements of asthma control and lung function. Notes: 1423-0097 Kallieri, Maria Zervas, Eleftherios Katsoulis, Konstantinos Fouka, Eva Porpodis, Konstantinos Samitas, Konstantinos Papaioannou, Andriana I Kipourou, Maria Gaki, Eleni Vittorakis, Stylianos Markatos, Miltiadis Dimakou, Katerina Ampelioti, Sevasti Koukidou, Sofia Makris, Michael Ntakoula, Maria Mitrova, Marija Hadji Glynos, Konstantinos Antoniou, Katerina M Gaga, Mina Tzanakis, Nikolaos Markopoulou, Katerina Papakosta, Despoina Bakakos, Petros Loukides, Stelios Clinical Trial Journal Article Multicenter Study Observational Study Switzerland 2020/06/23 Int Arch Allergy Immunol. 2020;181(8):613-617. doi: 10.1159/000508559. Epub 2020 Jun 22. Author Address: 2nd Respiratory Department, Attiko University Hospital, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens Medical School, Athens, Greece. Sotiria Sotiria 7th Department, Athens Chest Hospital, Athens, Greece. Respiratory Department, 424 Army General Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. Pulmonary Department, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece. Private Practice, Trikala, Greece. Private Practice, Chania, Greece. 5th Respiratory Clinic, "Sotiria" Chest Hospital, Athens, Greece. Allergy Unit, 2nd Department of Dermatology and Venereology, Attikon University General Hospital, Athens, Greece. GSK Medical Division Greece, Athens, Greece. Respiratory Medicine Department, University Hospital of Heraklion, Iraklio, Greece. 1st Pulmonary Department, Papanikolaou General Hospital Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece. 1st Respiratory Department, Sotiria Chest Hospital, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens Medical School, Athens, Greece. 2nd Respiratory Department, Attiko University Hospital, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens Medical School, Athens, Greece, loukstel@med.uoa.gr. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng