Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 272 Author: Isoyama, S., Ishikawa, N., Hamai, K., Matsumura, M., Kobayashi, H., Nomura, A., Ueno, S., Tanimoto, T., Maeda, H., Iwamoto, H. and Hattori, N. Year: 2021 Title: Efficacy of mepolizumab in elderly patients with severe asthma and overlapping COPD in real-world settings: A retrospective observational study Journal: Respir Investig Volume: 59 Issue: 4 Pages: 478-486 Epub Date: 20210411 Date: Jul Short Title: Efficacy of mepolizumab in elderly patients with severe asthma and overlapping COPD in real-world settings: A retrospective observational study ISSN: 2212-5345 DOI: 10.1016/j.resinv.2021.02.009 Legal Note: Conflict of Interest The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare. Accession Number: 33849780 Keywords: Aged *Anti-Asthmatic Agents Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/therapeutic use *Asthma/drug therapy Eosinophils Female Humans Infant Male *Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive/drug therapy Retrospective Studies Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease overlap Elderly patient Eosinophil Interleukin-5 Severe asthma Abstract: BACKGROUND: Asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are the most common respiratory diseases, presenting overlapping prevalence with age. Mepolizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody targeting interleukin-5. In major randomized clinical trials, this antibody reportedly reduced the circulating eosinophil count, exacerbation rate, and oral corticosteroid (OCS) dosage in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma. However, data regarding the efficacy of mepolizumab in elderly patients with asthma and overlapping COPD are limited. METHODS: This was a single-center, retrospective, observational study. Elderly patients (age  65 years) administered mepolizumab between August 2016 and March 2019 were enrolled and the effects of mepolizumab on the eosinophil level, exacerbation numbers, OCS dosage, and lung functions were assessed. We compared treatment responses in patients with asthma and COPD overlap (ACO) with responses observed in patients with severe asthma alone. Adverse events were also evaluated. RESULTS: Twenty patients (10 men and 10 women), with a mean age of 77.5 1.3 years, were included. Mepolizumab significantly reduced the blood eosinophil count, as well as significantly decreased clinically significant exacerbation, in both populations. The OCS dosage was significantly reduced in patients treated receiving maintenance OCS therapy. However, mepolizumab did not improve lung function in either population, and no significant difference was observed in treatment responses between patients with asthma alone and ACO. CONCLUSIONS: Mepolizumab may be effective in elderly patients with eosinophilic asthma and ACO. Notes: 2212-5353 Isoyama, Shoko Ishikawa, Nobuhisa Hamai, Kosuke Matsumura, Mirai Kobayashi, Hiroki Nomura, Akio Ueno, Sayaka Tanimoto, Takuya Maeda, Hiroyuki Iwamoto, Hiroshi Hattori, Noboru Journal Article Observational Study Netherlands 2021/04/15 Respir Investig. 2021 Jul;59(4):478-486. doi: 10.1016/j.resinv.2021.02.009. Epub 2021 Apr 11. Author Address: Department of Respiratory Medicine, Hiroshima Prefectural Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan; Department of Molecular and Internal Medicine, Graduate School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan. Department of Respiratory Medicine, Hiroshima Prefectural Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan. Electronic address: n-ishikawa@hph.pref.hiroshima.jp. Department of Respiratory Medicine, Hiroshima Prefectural Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan. Department of Rheumatology, Hiroshima Prefectural Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan. Department of Molecular and Internal Medicine, Graduate School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, Hiroshima University, Hiroshima, Japan. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng