Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 38 Author: Jackson, D. J., Bacharier, L. B., Gergen, P. J., Gagalis, L., Calatroni, A., Wellford, S., Gill, M. A., Stokes, J., Liu, A. H., Gruchalla, R. S., Cohen, R. T., Makhija, M., Khurana Hershey, G. K., O'Connor, G. T., Pongracic, J. A., Sherenian, M. G., Rivera-Spoljaric, K., Zoratti, E. M., Teach, S. J., Kattan, M., Dutmer, C. M., Kim, H., Lamm, C., Sheehan, W. J., Segnitz, R. M., Dill-McFarland, K. A., Visness, C. M., Becker, P. M., Gern, J. E., Sorkness, C. A., Busse, W. W. and Altman, M. C. Year: 2022 Title: Mepolizumab for urban children with exacerbation-prone eosinophilic asthma in the USA (MUPPITS-2): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial Journal: Lancet Volume: 400 Issue: 10351 Pages: 502-511 Date: Aug 13 Short Title: Mepolizumab for urban children with exacerbation-prone eosinophilic asthma in the USA (MUPPITS-2): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial ISSN: 0140-6736 (Print) 0140-6736 DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(22)01198-9 Legal Note: Declaration of interests All authors, with the exceptions of PMB, LG, and PJG, report grants from the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) NIAID during the study. CMV, AC, SW, LG, PJG, and PMB have nothing to disclose outside of the submitted work. LBB reports personal fees from GlaxoSmithKline, Genentech Novartis, Teva, Boehringer Ingelheim, AstraZeneca, WebMD Medscape, Merck, DBV Technologies, Circassia, Sanofi Regeneron, and Vectura, all outside the submitted work. GTO reports personal fees from AstraZeneca and grant funding from Janssen Pharmaceuticals, outside the submitted work. CMD reports personal fees from Horizon Therapeutics and Enzyvant Therapeutics, outside the submitted work. MCA reports personal fees from Sanofi Regeneron, outside the submitted work. WWB reports personal fees from Boston Scientific, Novartis, GlaxoSmithKline, Genentech, Sanofi Genzyme, AstraZeneca, Teva, Regeneron, and Elsevier, outside the submitted work. MAG reports an honorarium for and support for travel to the 2017 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology meeting during this study and monetary compensation from the American Academy of Pediatrics for her work teaching the biannual Pediatrics board review course: PREP The Course. GKKH reports grants from Adare during the study. DJJ reports personal fees from Novartis, Pfizer, Regeneron, AstraZeneca, Sanofi, and Vifor Pharma; grants and personal fees from GlaxoSmithKline; and grants from NIH US National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI), all outside the submitted work. MK reports personal fees from Regeneron, outside the submitted work. RSG reports government employment from the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research and personal fees from Consulting Massachusetts Medical Society, outside the submitted work. AHL reports personal fees from Phadia ThermoFisher as consulting honoraria; grants and non-financial support from ResMed Propeller Health; non-financial support from Revenio; grants and personal fees from Avillion; and personal fees from Labcorp, all outside the submitted work. SJT reports grants from NIH Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, NIH NHLBI, and EJF Philanthropies and personal fees from Uptodate, all outside the submitted work. JAP reports provision of study drug for another asthma research study from GlaxoSmithKline and Boehringer Ingelheim and provision of study drug for another asthma research study and for food allergy research studies from Genentech Novartis, all outside the submitted work. All other authors declare no competing interests. PMCID: PMC9623810 NIHMSID: NIHMS1830980 Accession Number: 35964610 Keywords: Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized *Asthma/drug therapy Humans *Pulmonary Eosinophilia United States Urban Population Abstract: BACKGROUND: Black and Hispanic children living in urban environments in the USA have an excess burden of morbidity and mortality from asthma. Therapies directed at the eosinophilic phenotype reduce asthma exacerbations in adults, but few data are available in children and diverse populations. Furthermore, the molecular mechanisms that underlie exacerbations either being prevented by, or persisting despite, immune-based therapies are not well understood. We aimed to determine whether mepolizumab, added to guidelines-based care, reduced the number of asthma exacerbations during a 52-week period compared with guidelines-based care alone. METHODS: This is a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial done at nine urban medical centres in the USA. Children and adolescents aged 6-17 years, who lived in socioeconomically disadvantaged neighbourhoods and had exacerbation-prone asthma (defined as  two exacerbations in the previous year) and blood eosinophils of at least 150 cells per  L were randomly assigned 1:1 to mepolizumab (6-11 years: 40 mg; 12-17 years: 100 mg) or placebo injections once every 4 weeks, plus guideline-based care, for 52 weeks. Randomisation was done using a validated automated system. Participants, investigators, and the research staff who collected outcome measures remained masked to group assignments. The primary outcome was the number of asthma exacerbations that were treated with systemic corticosteroids during 52 weeks in the intention-to-treat population. The mechanisms of treatment response were assessed by study investigators using nasal transcriptomic modular analysis. Safety was assessed in the intention-to-treat population. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03292588. FINDINGS: Between Nov 1, 2017, and Mar 12, 2020, we recruited 585 children and adolescents. We screened 390 individuals, of whom 335 met the inclusion criteria and were enrolled. 290 met the randomisation criteria, were randomly assigned to mepolizumab (n=146) or placebo (n=144), and were included in the intention-to-treat analysis. 248 completed the study. The mean number of asthma exacerbations within the 52-week study period was 0 96 (95% CI 0 78-1 17) with mepolizumab and 1 30 (1 08-1 57) with placebo (rate ratio 0 73; 0 56-0 96; p=0 027). Treatment-emergent adverse events occurred in 42 (29%) of 146 participants in the mepolizumab group versus 16 (11%) of 144 participants in the placebo group. No deaths were attributed to mepolizumab. INTERPRETATION: Phenotype-directed therapy with mepolizumab in urban children with exacerbation-prone eosinophilic asthma reduced the number of exacerbations. FUNDING: US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and GlaxoSmithKline. Notes: 1474-547x Jackson, Daniel J Bacharier, Leonard B Gergen, Peter J Gagalis, Lisa Calatroni, Agustin Wellford, Stephanie Gill, Michelle A Stokes, Jeffrey Liu, Andrew H Gruchalla, Rebecca S Cohen, Robyn T Makhija, Melanie Khurana Hershey, Gurjit K O'Connor, George T Pongracic, Jacqueline A Sherenian, Michael G Rivera-Spoljaric, Katherine Zoratti, Edward M Teach, Stephen J Kattan, Meyer Dutmer, Cullen M Kim, Haejin Lamm, Carin Sheehan, William J Segnitz, R Max Dill-McFarland, Kimberly A Visness, Cynthia M Becker, Patrice M Gern, James E Sorkness, Christine A Busse, William W Altman, Matthew C US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease's Inner City Asthma Consortium UL1 TR000150/TR/NCATS NIH HHS/United States UL1 RR025741/RR/NCRR NIH HHS/United States UL1 TR001422/TR/NCATS NIH HHS/United States UM1 AI114271/AI/NIAID NIH HHS/United States UM1 AI160040/AI/NIAID NIH HHS/United States UL1 TR001876/TR/NCATS NIH HHS/United States UL1 TR001425/TR/NCATS NIH HHS/United States UL1 TR002535/TR/NCATS NIH HHS/United States UM2 AI117870/AI/NIAID NIH HHS/United States Journal Article Randomized Controlled Trial England 2022/08/15 Lancet. 2022 Aug 13;400(10351):502-511. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(22)01198-9. Author Address: Department of Pediatrics, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA; Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA. Electronic address: djj@medicine.wisc.edu. Department of Pediatrics, Monroe Carell Jr Children's Hospital at Vanderbilt, Nashville, TN, USA. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Bethesda, MD, USA. Rho Federal Systems Division, Durham, NC, USA. Department of Pediatrics, Washington University, St Louis, MO, USA. Pediatric Pulmonary and Sleep Medicine, Children's Hospital Colorado and University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA. Department of Pediatrics, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA. Department of Pediatrics, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA. Division of Allergy and Immunology, Ann and Robert H Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA. Division of Asthma Research, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA. Department of Pediatrics, University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH, USA; Division of Asthma Research, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA. Department of Pediatrics, Washington University, St Louis, MO, USA; St Louis Children's Hospital, St Louis, MO, USA. Department of Medicine, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI, USA. Children's National Hospital, George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Washington, DC, USA. Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY, USA. Pediatrics-Allergy and Immunology, Children's Hospital Colorado and University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA. Department of Pediatrics, New York Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY, USA. Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. Department of Pediatrics, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA; Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA. School of Pharmacy, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA. Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA. Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA; Benaroya Research Institute, Seattle, WA, USA. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng