Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 350 Author: Maniaci, A., Saibene, A. M., Calvo-Henriquez, C., Vaira, L., Radulesco, T., Michel, J., Chiesa-Estomba, C., Sowerby, L., Lobo Duro, D., Mayo-Yanez, M., Maza-Solano, J., Lechien, J. R., La Mantia, I. and Cocuzza, S. Year: 2024 Title: Is generative pre-trained transformer artificial intelligence (Chat-GPT) a reliable tool for guidelines synthesis? A preliminary evaluation for biologic CRSwNP therapy Journal: Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol Volume: 281 Issue: 4 Pages: 2167-2173 Epub Date: 20240208 Date: Apr Short Title: Is generative pre-trained transformer artificial intelligence (Chat-GPT) a reliable tool for guidelines synthesis? A preliminary evaluation for biologic CRSwNP therapy ISSN: 0937-4477 DOI: 10.1007/s00405-024-08464-9 Accession Number: 38329526 Keywords: Humans Interleukin-5 *Rhinitis/complications/drug therapy Artificial Intelligence Quality of Life *Asthma/epidemiology *Nasal Polyps/complications/drug therapy/epidemiology Chronic Disease *Sinusitis/complications/drug therapy/epidemiology *Biological Products/therapeutic use Biological Therapy Biologic CRSwNP therapy Generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) Guidelines synthesis Preliminary evaluation Abstract: INTRODUCTION: Biologic therapies for Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps (CRSwNP) have emerged as an auspicious treatment alternative. However, the ideal patient population, dosage, and treatment duration are yet to be well-defined. Moreover, biologic therapy has disadvantages, such as high costs and limited access. The proposal of a novel Artificial Intelligence (AI) algorithm offers an intriguing solution for optimizing decision-making protocols. METHODS: The AI algorithm was initially programmed to conduct a systematic literature review searching for the current primary guidelines on biologics' clinical efficacy and safety in treating CRSwNP. The review included a total of 12 studies: 6 systematic reviews, 4 expert consensus guidelines, and 2 surveys. Simultaneously, two independent human researchers conducted a literature search to compare the results. Subsequently, the AI was tasked to critically analyze the identified papers, highlighting strengths and weaknesses, thereby creating a decision-making algorithm and pyramid flow chart. RESULTS: The studies evaluated various biologics, including monoclonal antibodies targeting Interleukin-5 (IL-5), IL-4, IL-13, and Immunoglobulin E (IgE), assessing their effectiveness in different patient populations, such as those with comorbid asthma or refractory CRSwNP. Dupilumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting the IL-4 receptor alpha subunit, demonstrated significant improvement in nasal symptoms and quality of life in patients with CRSwNP in several randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews. Similarly, mepolizumab and reslizumab, which target IL-5, have also shown efficacy in reducing nasal polyp burden and improving symptoms in patients with CRSwNP, particularly those with comorbid asthma. However, additional studies are required to confirm the long-term efficacy and safety of these biologics in treating CRSwNP. CONCLUSIONS: Biologic therapies have surfaced as a promising treatment option for patients with severe or refractory CRSwNP; however, the optimal patient population, dosage, and treatment duration are yet to be defined. The application of AI in decision-making protocols and the creation of therapeutic algorithms for biologic drug selection, could offer fascinating future prospects in the management of CRSwNP. Notes: 1434-4726 Maniaci, Antonino Orcid: 0000-0002-1251-0185 Saibene, Alberto Maria Calvo-Henriquez, Christian Vaira, Luigi Radulesco, Thomas Michel, Justin Chiesa-Estomba, Carlos Sowerby, Leigh Lobo Duro, David Mayo-Yanez, Miguel Maza-Solano, Juan Lechien, Jerome Rene La Mantia, Ignazio Cocuzza, Salvatore Journal Article Systematic Review Germany 2024/02/08 Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2024 Apr;281(4):2167-2173. doi: 10.1007/s00405-024-08464-9. Epub 2024 Feb 8. Author Address: Faculty of Medicine and Surgery, "Kore" University of Enna, Enna, Italy. antonino.maniaci@phd.unict.it. Rhynology Study Group of the Young-Otolaryngologists of the International Federations of Otorhino-Laryngological Societies (YO-IFOS), Paris, France. antonino.maniaci@phd.unict.it. Rhynology Study Group of the Young-Otolaryngologists of the International Federations of Otorhino-Laryngological Societies (YO-IFOS), Paris, France. Otolaryngology Unit, Santi Paolo E Carlo Hospital, Department of Health Sciences, Universit  Degli Studi Di Milano, Milan, Italy. Service of Otolaryngology, Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela, Spain. Maxillofacial Surgery Unit, University Hospital of Sassari, Sassari, Italy. ENT Surgeon, Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology Head and Neck Surgery, La Conception University Hospital, Aix-Marseille Univesity, 147 Bd Baille, 13005, Marseille, France. ENT-Head and Neck Department, Hospital Universitario Donostia, San Sebasti n, Spain. Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, Schulich School of Medicine, Western University, London, UK. Rhinology, Endoscopic Sinus and Skull Base Surgery, Hospital Universitario Marqu s de Valdecilla, Santander, Spain. Valdecilla Biomedical Research Institute, IDIVAL, Santander, Spain. Department of Otorhinolaryngology, A Coru a University Hospital Complex, 15006, A Coru a, Spain. Servicio de Otorrinolaringolog a, Hospital Universitario Virgen Macarena, Sevilla. Hospital Quir nsalud Sagrado Coraz n, Seville. Departamento de Cirug a, Universidad de Sevilla, Seville, Spain. Department of Anatomy and Experimental Oncology, Mons School of Medicine, UMONS Research Institute for Health Sciences and Technology, University of Mons (UMons), Mons, Belgium. Deparment of Medical, Surgical Sciences and Advanced Technologies G.F.Ingrassia, University of Catania, 95123, Catania, Italy. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng