Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 318 Author: Matucci, A., Vultaggio, A. and Danesi, R. Year: 2018 Title: The use of intravenous versus subcutaneous monoclonal antibodies in the treatment of severe asthma: a review Journal: Respir Res Volume: 19 Issue: 1 Pages: 154 Epub Date: 20180816 Date: Aug 16 Short Title: The use of intravenous versus subcutaneous monoclonal antibodies in the treatment of severe asthma: a review ISSN: 1465-9921 (Print) 1465-9921 DOI: 10.1186/s12931-018-0859-z Legal Note: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: AM and AV have received payment for lectures and consultant arrangements from Novartis, Glaxo-Smith-Kline, Teva, Astra-Zeneca. AM and AV have received research support from Novartis, Glaxo-Smith-Kline and Sanofi. RD receives research fundings from Pfizer, Boehringher, AstraZeneca, Novartis and Celgene and honoraria from Pfizer, Boehringher, AstraZeneca, Novartis, Janssen, Roche and Celgene. The authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. PMCID: PMC6097430 Accession Number: 30115042 Keywords: Administration, Intravenous Anti-Asthmatic Agents/*administration & dosage Antibodies, Monoclonal/*administration & dosage Asthma/*diagnosis/*drug therapy Humans Injections, Subcutaneous Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic/methods *Severity of Illness Index Treatment Outcome Eosinophil Mepolizumab Monoclonal antibodies Omalizumab Reslizumab Severe asthma Abstract: BACKGROUND: Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) approved for use as add-on therapy in patients with severe asthma target the underlying pathogenesis of asthma. MAIN BODY: Omalizumab binds immunoglobulin E (IgE), thereby inhibiting its interaction with the high-affinity IgE receptor and reducing the quantity of free IgE available to trigger the allergic cascade. Anti-interleukin (IL)-5 mAbs mepolizumab, benralizumab and reslizumab block the interaction between IL-5 and its receptor on eosinophils, thus targeting the eosinophilic pathway in asthma. Most mAbs are available as intravenous (IV) or subcutaneous (SC) formulations, as their high molecular weight and gastric degradation preclude oral administration. This review compares the pharmacology, efficacy, immunogenicity, injection- and infusion-related adverse drug reactions of subcutaneously administered omalizumab and mepolizumab with the intravenously administered reslizumab. In terms of pharmacokinetics, IV route of administration appears to be superior to the SC route due to quicker absorption, greater bioavailability, shorter time to maximum serum concentration and similar elimination half-life. Route of administration does not appear to translate into striking differences in efficacy and safety of mAbs used for the treatment of severe asthma, as all are generally considered to be effective and well tolerated. Hypersensitivity and administration-related reactions have been described with both IV and SC mAbs. CONCLUSION: mABs are effective and have low immunogenicity due to their nature as humanised antibodies. Evidence on the use of mAbs in indications other than severe asthma suggest that both the SC and the IV routes of administrations have their respective advantages and disadvantages; but their full utility remains to be elucidated. Notes: 1465-993x Matucci, Andrea Vultaggio, Alessandra Danesi, Romano Comparative Study Journal Article Review England 2018/08/18 Respir Res. 2018 Aug 16;19(1):154. doi: 10.1186/s12931-018-0859-z. Author Address: Immunoallergology Unit, AOU Careggi, University of Florence, Largo Brambilla 3, 50134, Florence, Italy. andrea.matucci@unifi.it. Immunoallergology Unit, AOU Careggi, University of Florence, Largo Brambilla 3, 50134, Florence, Italy. Clinical Pharmacology and Pharmacogenetics Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng