Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 55 Author: Li, Z., Radin, A., Li, M., Hamilton, J. D., Kajiwara, M., Davis, J. D., Takahashi, Y., Hasegawa, S., Ming, J. E., DiCioccio, A. T., Li, Y., Kovalenko, P., Lu, Q., Ortemann-Renon, C., Ardeleanu, M. and Swanson, B. N. Year: 2020 Title: Pharmacokinetics, Pharmacodynamics, Safety, and Tolerability of Dupilumab in Healthy Adult Subjects Journal: Clin Pharmacol Drug Dev Volume: 9 Issue: 6 Pages: 742-755 Epub Date: 20200429 Date: Aug Short Title: Pharmacokinetics, Pharmacodynamics, Safety, and Tolerability of Dupilumab in Healthy Adult Subjects ISSN: 2160-763X (Print) 2160-763x DOI: 10.1002/cpdd.798 Legal Note: Z.L., M.L., and B.N.S. were employees of Sanofi at the time of the study and held stock and/or stock options in the company. M.K., Y.T., J.E.M., Y.L., Q.L., and C.O R. are employees of Sanofi and may hold stock and/or stock options in the company. A.R., J.D.H., J.D.D., A.T.D., P.K., and M.A. are employees and shareholders of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. S.H. has nothing to disclose. PMCID: PMC7496261 Accession Number: 32348036 Keywords: Administration, Intravenous Adolescent Adult Aged Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/*administration & dosage/adverse effects/pharmacokinetics Clinical Trials, Phase I as Topic Dose-Response Relationship, Drug Female Humans Injections, Subcutaneous Interleukin-4 Receptor alpha Subunit/*immunology Male Middle Aged Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic Young Adult dupilumab healthy subjects pharmacodynamics pharmacokinetics type 2 immune diseases Abstract: Dupilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody directed against the interleukin (IL)-4 receptor   subunit (IL-4R ) of IL-4 heterodimeric type I and type II receptors that mediate IL-4/IL-13 signaling through this pathway. Blockade of these receptors broadly suppresses type 2 inflammation associated with atopic/allergic diseases, including atopic dermatitis and asthma. Six phase 1 studies investigated the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, safety, and tolerability of dupilumab in healthy subjects. Two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, sequential studies assessed safety and tolerability of single escalating dupilumab doses administered intravenously or subcutaneously (one included various racial groups, and one included exclusively Japanese subjects); 3 randomized, parallel-group, single-dose studies compared the pharmacokinetic profiles of different dupilumab products and formulations after single subcutaneous doses; and one study assessed dupilumab administered as fast versus slow subcutaneous injections. Dupilumab concentrations in serum were measured in all studies, and total immunoglobulin E (IgE) and thymus- and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC) concentrations were measured in 2 studies as pharmacodynamic markers. Across the phase 1 studies, dupilumab exhibited target-mediated pharmacokinetics consisting of parallel linear and nonlinear elimination, with the target-mediated phase highly dominated by nonlinearity at lower drug concentrations. Systemic exposure and tolerability of dupilumab were consistent irrespective of differences in product, formulation, or racial background. Dupilumab reduced circulating concentrations of total IgE and TARC, indicating blockade of IL-4R -mediated signaling. Dupilumab had a favorable safety profile across the wide range of doses administered. Together, these findings support the continued development and use of dupilumab in treatment of type 2 diseases. Notes: 2160-7648 Li, Zhaoyang Radin, Allen Li, Meng Hamilton, Jennifer D Kajiwara, Miyuki Davis, John D Takahashi, Yoshinori Hasegawa, Setsuo Ming, Jeffrey E DiCioccio, A Thomas Li, Yongtao Kovalenko, Pavel Lu, Qiang Ortemann-Renon, Catherine Ardeleanu, Marius Swanson, Brian N Comparative Study Journal Article Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't United States 2020/04/30 Clin Pharmacol Drug Dev. 2020 Aug;9(6):742-755. doi: 10.1002/cpdd.798. Epub 2020 Apr 29. Author Address: Sanofi Genzyme, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc., Tarrytown, New York, USA. Sanofi, Bridgewater, New Jersey, USA. Sanofi KK, Tokyo, Japan. Sekino Clinical Pharmacology Clinic, Tokyo, Japan. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng