Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 451 Author: Shrimanker, R., Pavord, I. D., Yancey, S., Heaney, L. G., Green, R. H., Bradding, P., Hargadon, B., Brightling, C. E., Wardlaw, A. J. and Haldar, P. Year: 2018 Title: Exacerbations of severe asthma in patients treated with mepolizumab Journal: Eur Respir J Volume: 52 Issue: 6 Epub Date: 20181213 Date: Dec Short Title: Exacerbations of severe asthma in patients treated with mepolizumab ISSN: 0903-1936 DOI: 10.1183/13993003.01127-2018 Legal Note: Conflict of interest: R. Shrimanker has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: I.D. Pavord reports receiving speaker's honoraria, travel expenses and honoraria for attending advisory boards from AstraZeneca, GSK, Boehringer Ingelheim and Teva, a research grant, speaker's honoraria, travel expenses and honoraria for attending advisory boards from Chiesi, honoraria for attending advisory boards from Sanofi/Regeneron, speaker's honoraria from Circassia and Mundipharma, honoraria for attending advisory boards from Merck, Novartis, Knopp and Roche/Genentech, a research grant and honoraria for attending advisory boards from Afferent, outside the submitted work. Conflict of interest: S. Yancey is an employee of GSK and holds stock in that company. Conflict of interest: L.G. Heaney reports reports that Vitalograph Ltd provided INCA inhaler technology as part of the MRC-funded RASP-UK programme and Aerocrine AB provided FeNO machines at reduced cost as part of that programme. He took part in advisory boards and gave lectures at meetings supported by GSK, Respivert, MSD, Nycomed, Boehringer Ingelheim, Teva, Vectura, Novartis and AstraZeneca, during the conduct of the study. He received sponsorship for attending international scientific meetings from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, GSK and Napp Pharmaceuticals, and received lecture and advisory board fees from Novartis, Roche Genentech Inc., Sanofi, GSK, Amgen, AstraZeneca and Aerocrine, outside the submitted work. Conflict of interest: R.H. Green reports receiving educational speaker fees from AstraZeneca and Novartis, outside the submitted work. Conflict of interest: P. Bradding reports receiving non-financial support (provision of the study drug) from GSK during the conduct of the study. Conflict of interest: B. Hargadon has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: C.E. Brightling reports receiving grants from GSK and the NIHR, during the conduct of the study; grants and personal fees from AZ/MedImmune, grants and personal fees from GSK, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, Novartis and Roche/Genentech, personal fees from Glenmark, Gilead and Teva, Sanofi, Regeneron, 4DPharma, PreP and Mologic, paid to his institution, outside the submitted work. Conflict of interest: A.J. Wardlaw reports receiving grants from GSK during the conduct of the study, and grants from Pulmocide, and personal fees from GSK, AstraZeneca/MedImmune, Teva and GfK, outside the submitted work. Conflict of interest: P. Haldar has nothing to disclose. Accession Number: 30464012 Keywords: Anti-Asthmatic Agents/*administration & dosage Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/*administration & dosage Asthma/diagnosis/*drug therapy *Disease Progression Double-Blind Method Humans Treatment Outcome Notes: 1399-3003 Shrimanker, Rahul Pavord, Ian D Yancey, Steve Heaney, Liam G Green, Ruth H Bradding, Peter Hargadon, Beverley Brightling, Chris E Wardlaw, Andrew J Haldar, Pranabashis Letter Randomized Controlled Trial Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't England 2018/11/23 Eur Respir J. 2018 Dec 13;52(6):1801127. doi: 10.1183/13993003.01127-2018. Print 2018 Dec. Author Address: Respiratory Medicine Unit, Nuffield Dept of Medicine and Oxford Respiratory BRC, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. Respiratory Medical Franchise and the Respiratory Therapeutic Area, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. Dept of Respiratory Medicine, Centre for Experimental Medicine, School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK. Dept of Respiratory Medicine, Allergy and Thoracic Surgery and NIHR BRC Respiratory Theme, Glenfield Hospital, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng