Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 360 Author: Yamada, H., Nakajima, M., Matsuyama, M., Morishima, Y., Arai, N., Hida, N., Nakaizumi, T., Masuko, H., Yatagai, Y., Saito, T. and Hizawa, N. Year: 2021 Title: Identification of distinct phenotypes related to benralizumab responsiveness in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma Journal: PLoS One Volume: 16 Issue: 3 Pages: e0248305 Epub Date: 20210311 Short Title: Identification of distinct phenotypes related to benralizumab responsiveness in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma ISSN: 1932-6203 DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0248305 Legal Note: H.Y. has received lecture fees from AstraZeneca, Sanofi and Boehringer Ingelheim. N. Hizawa is on the GlaxoSmithKline advisory board; has received research support from Astellas, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline, Kyorin, MSD, Novartis, and Chugai Pharmaceutical; and has received lecture fees from Astellas, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline, Kyorin, MSD, and Novartis. The rest of the authors declare that they have no relevant conflicts of interest. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. PMCID: PMC7951858 Accession Number: 33705484 Keywords: Aged Anti-Asthmatic Agents/*administration & dosage Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/*administration & dosage Asthma/*drug therapy/physiopathology Female Forced Expiratory Volume Humans Male Middle Aged Pulmonary Eosinophilia/*drug therapy/physiopathology Severity of Illness Index Abstract: PURPOSE: To characterize the clinical phenotypes of severe eosinophilic asthma based on early responsiveness to benralizumab in terms of forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) improvement. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-four participants diagnosed with severe eosinophilic asthma and who had completed 4 months of benralizumab treatment were included in this analysis. Pre-treatment clinical factors were compared between responders and non-responders according to improvements in ACT or FEV1. Correlations between the sums of increased Type 2-related inflammatory parameters and changes of ACT or FEV1 were also evaluated before and after the 4-month treatment. A two-step cluster analysis was performed to identify distinct phenotypes related to benralizumab responsiveness in terms of FEV1. RESULTS: At the 4-month timepoint, all parameters, except for FeNO, were significantly improved after benralizumab treatment. FEV1 responders were associated with higher levels of Type 2-related inflammatory parameters. An improvement in FEV1 but not in ACT was clearly associated with increases in the sums of increased type 2-related inflammation parameters (p = 0.0001). The cluster analysis identified 5 distinct phenotypes of severe eosinophilic asthma according to the variable FEV1 responsiveness to benralizumab. The greatest response was found in the distinct phenotype of severe eosinophilic asthma, which was characterized by modest increase in total IgE and FeNO relative to blood eosinophils with least exposure to smoking. CONCLUSION: This study, to the best of our knowledge, is the first cluster analysis to report distinct phenotypes related to clinical benralizumab response in a real-world population with severe eosinophilic asthma. These results may help to predict responsiveness to benralizumab in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma. Notes: 1932-6203 Yamada, Hideyasu Orcid: 0000-0002-5489-2062 Nakajima, Masayuki Matsuyama, Masashi Morishima, Yuko Arai, Naoki Hida, Norihito Nakaizumi, Taisuke Masuko, Hironori Yatagai, Yohei Saito, Takefumi Hizawa, Nobuyuki Clinical Trial Journal Article Multicenter Study Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't United States 2021/03/12 PLoS One. 2021 Mar 11;16(3):e0248305. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0248305. eCollection 2021. Author Address: Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pulmonary Medicine, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan. Division of Respiratory Medicine, Hitachi Ltd, Hitachinaka General Hospital, Hitachinaka, Ibaraki, Japan. Department of Respiratory Medicine, National Hospital Organization, Ibarakihigashi National Hospital, Tokaimura, Ibaraki, Japan. Division of Respiratory Medicine, Tsukuba Gakuen Hospital, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng