Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 254 Author: Weinstein, S. F., Katial, R. K., Bardin, P., Korn, S., McDonald, M., Garin, M., Bateman, E. D., Hoyte, F. C. L. and Germinaro, M. Year: 2019 Title: Effects of Reslizumab on Asthma Outcomes in a Subgroup of Eosinophilic Asthma Patients with Self-Reported Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps Journal: J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract Volume: 7 Issue: 2 Pages: 589-596.e3 Epub Date: 20180905 Date: Feb Short Title: Effects of Reslizumab on Asthma Outcomes in a Subgroup of Eosinophilic Asthma Patients with Self-Reported Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps DOI: 10.1016/j.jaip.2018.08.021 Accession Number: 30193936 Keywords: Adolescent Adult Aged Anti-Asthmatic Agents/*therapeutic use Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/*therapeutic use Aspirin Asthma/*drug therapy/epidemiology/immunology Child Chronic Disease Comorbidity Eosinophils/immunology Female Humans Male Middle Aged Nasal Polyps/*drug therapy/epidemiology/immunology Pulmonary Eosinophilia/*drug therapy/epidemiology/immunology Rhinitis/*drug therapy/epidemiology/immunology Self Report Sinusitis/*drug therapy/epidemiology/immunology Treatment Outcome Young Adult Aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease Chronic rhinosinusitis Eosinophilic asthma Nasal polyps Reslizumab Abstract: BACKGROUND: An estimated 7% of patients with asthma have chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP), and more than 80% have at least some radiographic evidence of sinonasal inflammation. Aspirin sensitivity is strongly associated with elevated blood eosinophil levels and increased asthma severity. Intravenous (IV) reslizumab has been shown to improve asthma control in patients with nasal polyps. OBJECTIVE: These post hoc analyses of pooled data from 2 BREATH phase 3 clinical trials, studies 1 and 2 (NCT01287039 and NCT01285323), examined asthma-related outcomes in patients with comorbid, self-reported CRSwNP with and without aspirin sensitivity. METHODS: Patients aged 12-75 years with elevated blood eosinophils ( 400 cells/ L) and inadequately controlled asthma were randomized to receive placebo or reslizumab (3 mg/kg IV) every 4 weeks for 52 weeks. Patients continued their background asthma maintenance therapy during the study. Information regarding the presence of CRSwNP was obtained through patient-reported medical history. RESULTS: Add-on reslizumab treatment reduced the frequency of clinical asthma exacerbations by 83% versus placebo among patients with CRSwNP. Among patients with and without aspirin sensitivity, reductions of 79% and 84%, respectively, were observed. Patients with CRSwNP (with and without aspirin sensitivity) treated with reslizumab add-on therapy also had significant improvements in lung function, as measured by forced expiratory volume in 1 second, compared with placebo. Among patients with CRSwNP, reslizumab was also associated with improvements in patient-reported asthma control and asthma quality of life. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with eosinophilic asthma and self-reported CRSwNP, with and without aspirin sensitivity, are highly responsive to treatment with reslizumab for asthma-related outcomes. These findings suggest that prospective investigation of reslizumab in this patient population is warranted. Notes: 2213-2201 Weinstein, Steven F Katial, Rohit K Bardin, Philip Korn, Stephanie McDonald, Mirna Garin, Margaret Bateman, Eric D Hoyte, Flavia C L Germinaro, Matthew Clinical Trial, Phase III Journal Article Randomized Controlled Trial Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't United States 2018/09/09 J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2019 Feb;7(2):589-596.e3. doi: 10.1016/j.jaip.2018.08.021. Epub 2018 Sep 5. Author Address: Allergy and Asthma Specialists Medical Group and Research Center, Huntington Beach, Calif. Electronic address: sfw@ocallergy.com. Division of Allergy and Immunology, National Jewish Health, Denver, Colo. Monash Lung and Sleep, Monash Medical Centre and University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. Pulmonary Department, Mainz University Hospital, Mainz, Germany. Global Respiratory R&D, Teva Branded Pharmaceutical Products R&D Inc., Malvern, Pa. Division of Pulmonology, Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng