Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 189 Author: Zaazouee, M. S., Alwarraqi, A. G., Mohammed, Y. A., Badheeb, M. A., Farhat, A. M., Eleyan, M., Morad, A., Zeid, M. A., Mohamed, A. S., AbuEl-Enien, H., Abdelalim, A., Elsnhory, A. B., Hrizat, Y. S. M., Altahir, N. T., Atef, D., Elshanbary, A. A., Alsharif, K. F., Alzahrani, K. J., Algahtani, M., Theyab, A., Hawsawi, Y. M., Aldarmahi, A. A. and Abdel-Daim, M. M. Year: 2022 Title: Dupilumab efficacy and safety in patients with moderate to severe asthma: A systematic review and meta-analysis Journal: Front Pharmacol Volume: 13 Pages: 992731 Epub Date: 20221003 Short Title: Dupilumab efficacy and safety in patients with moderate to severe asthma: A systematic review and meta-analysis ISSN: 1663-9812 (Print) 1663-9812 DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2022.992731 Legal Note: The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest. PMCID: PMC9574251 Accession Number: 36263132 Keywords: asthma dupilumab meta-analysis monoclonal antibody systematic review Abstract: Background: Dupilumab is a human monoclonal antibody directed against the alpha subunit of the interleukin-4 receptor and inhibits the signaling of IL-4 and IL-13. It is approved for treating asthma and other type-2 inflammatory diseases. There is a conflict in the literature regarding the safety and efficacy of dupilumab. Thus, we aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of dupilumab in patients with moderate to severe asthma. Methods: Six databases (PubMed, Embase, Scopus, Web of Science, Cochrane library, and clinicaltrials.gov registry) were searched until January 2022. We included randomized controlled trials that compared dupilumab with the placebo in moderate to severe asthma patients. We extracted the data at 12 and 24 weeks and analyzed them using review manager 5.4. Findings: Thirteen trials were included. Dupilumab significantly improved the forced expiratory volume in 1 s, asthma control questionnaire score, the fraction of exhaled nitric oxide level, and immunoglobulin E level at 12 and 24 weeks (p < 0.05). However, it was associated with increased blood eosinophils at 12 and 24 weeks. Dupilumab was generally a safe agent for asthmatic patients. It showed no significant difference compared with the placebo regarding most adverse events. Conclusion: Dupilumab improves pulmonary function and reduces local and systemic inflammatory markers with minimal adverse events in patients with moderate to severe asthma. Notes: 1663-9812 Zaazouee, Mohamed Sayed Alwarraqi, Asmaa Gomaa Mohammed, Yasmine Adel Badheeb, Mohamed A Farhat, Abdullah Mohamed Eleyan, Mohammed Morad, Afnan Zeid, Marwa Abdel-Aziz Mohamed, Aya Shaban AbuEl-Enien, Hazem Abdelalim, Ahmed Elsnhory, Ahmed Bostamy Hrizat, Yasmin S M Altahir, Nagat Taha Atef, Doaa Elshanbary, Alaa Ahmed Alsharif, Khalaf F Alzahrani, Khalid J Algahtani, Mohammad Theyab, Abdulrahman Hawsawi, Yousef M Aldarmahi, Ahmed A Abdel-Daim, Mohamed M Systematic Review Switzerland 2022/10/21 Front Pharmacol. 2022 Oct 3;13:992731. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2022.992731. eCollection 2022. Author Address: Faculty of Medicine, Al-Azhar University, Assiut, Egypt. Faculty of Medicine, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt. Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut, Egypt. College of Medicine, Hadhramout University, Al-Mukalla, Yemen. Faculty of Medicine, Fayoum University, Fayoum, Egypt. Department of Laboratory Medical Sciences, Alaqsa University, Gaza, Palestine. Faculty of Medicine, Al-Azhar University, Gaza, Palestine. Clinical Pharmacist, Pediatrics Department, Ministry of Health, Qalyubia, Egypt. Faculty of Pharmacy, October 6 University, Giza, Egypt. Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut, Egypt. Faculty of Pharmacy and Drug Manufacturing, Pharos University, Alexandria, Egypt. Faculty of Pharmacy, Al-Azhar University, Cairo, Egypt. Faculty of Medicine, Al-Azhar University, Cairo, Egypt. Faculty of Medicine, University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan. Faculty of Nursing, Khartoum University, Khartoum, Sudan. Department of Emergency Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut, Egypt. Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical Sciences, Taif University, Taif, Saudi Arabia. Department of Laboratory and Blood Bank, Security Forces Hospital, Mecca, Saudi Arabia. College of Medicine, Al-Faisal University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Research Center, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Basic Science Department, College of Science and Health Professions, King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, National Guard-Health Affairs, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Pharmacy Program, Batterjee Medical College, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Pharmacology Department, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Suez Canal University, Ismailia, Egypt. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng