Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 32 Author: Bettiol, A., Urban, M. L., Dagna, L., Cottin, V., Franceschini, F., Del Giacco, S., Schiavon, F., Neumann, T., Lopalco, G., Novikov, P., Baldini, C., Lombardi, C., Berti, A., Alberici, F., Folci, M., Negrini, S., Sinico, R. A., Quartuccio, L., Lunardi, C., Parronchi, P., Moosig, F., Esp gol-Frigol , G., Schroeder, J., Kernder, A. L., Monti, S., Silvagni, E., Crimi, C., Cinetto, F., Fraticelli, P., Roccatello, D., Vacca, A., Mohammad, A. J., Hellmich, B., Samson, M., Bargagli, E., Cohen Tervaert, J. W., Ribi, C., Fiori, D., Bello, F., Fagni, F., Moroni, L., Ramirez, G. A., Nasser, M., Marvisi, C., Toniati, P., Firinu, D., Padoan, R., Egan, A., Seeliger, B., Iannone, F., Salvarani, C., Jayne, D., Prisco, D., Vaglio, A. and Emmi, G. Year: 2022 Title: Mepolizumab for Eosinophilic Granulomatosis With Polyangiitis: A European Multicenter Observational Study Journal: Arthritis Rheumatol Volume: 74 Issue: 2 Pages: 295-306 Epub Date: 20211230 Date: Feb Short Title: Mepolizumab for Eosinophilic Granulomatosis With Polyangiitis: A European Multicenter Observational Study ISSN: 2326-5191 (Print) 2326-5191 DOI: 10.1002/art.41943 PMCID: PMC9305132 Accession Number: 34347947 Keywords: Adult Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/*administration & dosage Drug Administration Schedule Eosinophilia/complications/*drug therapy Female Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis/complications/*drug therapy Humans Male Middle Aged Retrospective Studies Treatment Outcome Abstract: OBJECTIVE: Mepolizumab proved to be an efficacious treatment for eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) at a dose of 300 mg every 4 weeks in the randomized, controlled MIRRA trial. In a few recently reported studies, successful real-life experiences with the approved dose for treating severe eosinophilic asthma (100 mg every 4 weeks) were observed. We undertook this study to assess the effectiveness and safety of mepolizumab 100 mg every 4 weeks and 300 mg every 4 weeks in a large European EGPA cohort. METHODS: We included all patients with EGPA treated with mepolizumab at the recruiting centers in 2015-2020. Treatment response was evaluated from 3 months to 24 months after initiation of mepolizumab. Complete response to treatment was defined as no disease activity (Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score [BVAS] = 0) and a prednisolone or prednisone dose (or equivalent) of  4 mg/day. Respiratory outcomes included asthma and ear, nose, and throat (ENT) exacerbations. RESULTS: Two hundred three patients, of whom 191 received a stable dose of mepolizumab (158 received 100 mg every 4 weeks and 33 received 300 mg every 4 weeks) were included. Twenty-five patients (12.3%) had a complete response to treatment at 3 months. Complete response rates increased to 30.4% and 35.7% at 12 months and 24 months, respectively, and rates were comparable between mepolizumab 100 mg every 4 weeks and 300 mg every 4 weeks. Mepolizumab led to a significant reduction in BVAS score, prednisone dose, and eosinophil counts from 3 months to 24 months, with no significant differences observed between 100 mg every 4 weeks and 300 mg every 4 weeks. Eighty-two patients (40.4%) experienced asthma exacerbations (57 of 158 [36%] who received 100 mg every 4 weeks; 17 of 33 [52%] who received 300 mg every 4 weeks), and 31 patients (15.3%) experienced ENT exacerbations. Forty-four patients (21.7%) experienced adverse events (AEs), most of which were nonserious AEs (38 of 44). CONCLUSION: Mepolizumab at both 100 mg every 4 weeks and 300 mg every 4 weeks is effective for the treatment of EGPA. The 2 doses should be compared in the setting of a controlled trial. Notes: 2326-5205 Bettiol, Alessandra Urban, Maria Letizia Dagna, Lorenzo Cottin, Vincent Franceschini, Franco Del Giacco, Stefano Schiavon, Franco Neumann, Thomas Lopalco, Giuseppe Novikov, Pavel Baldini, Chiara Lombardi, Carlo Berti, Alvise Alberici, Federico Folci, Marco Negrini, Simone Sinico, Renato Alberto Quartuccio, Luca Lunardi, Claudio Parronchi, Paola Moosig, Frank Esp gol-Frigol , Georgina Schroeder, Jan Kernder, Anna Luise Monti, Sara Silvagni, Ettore Crimi, Claudia Cinetto, Francesco Fraticelli, Paolo Roccatello, Dario Vacca, Angelo Mohammad, Aladdin J Hellmich, Bernhard Samson, Maxime Bargagli, Elena Cohen Tervaert, Jan Willem Ribi, Camillo Fiori, Davide Bello, Federica Fagni, Filippo Moroni, Luca Ramirez, Giuseppe Alvise Nasser, Mouhamad Marvisi, Chiara Toniati, Paola Firinu, Davide Padoan, Roberto Egan, Allyson Seeliger, Benjamin Iannone, Florenzo Salvarani, Carlo Jayne, David Prisco, Domenico Vaglio, Augusto Emmi, Giacomo European EGPA Study Group Journal Article Multicenter Study Observational Study United States 2021/08/05 Arthritis Rheumatol. 2022 Feb;74(2):295-306. doi: 10.1002/art.41943. Epub 2021 Dec 30. Author Address: University of Florence, Florence, Italy. San Raffaele Hospital, IRCCS, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy. Hospices Civils de Lyon and University of Lyon, Lyon, France. ASST Spedali Civili of Brescia and University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy. University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy. Azienda Ospedaliera-Universitaria di Padova, Padova, Italy. Cantonal Hospital St. Gallen, St. Gallen, Switzerland, and Jena University Hospital, Jena, Germany. Polyclinic Hospital, University of Bari, Bari, Italy. Tareev Clinic of Internal Diseases, Sechenov First Moscow State Medical University, Moscow, Russia. University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy. Fondazione Poliambulanza Istituto Ospedaliero, Brescia, Italy. Santa Chiara Hospital and University of Trento, Trento, Italy. University of Brescia and Spedali Civili Hospital, ASST Spedali Civili di Brescia, Brescia, Italy. Humanitas Clinical and Research Center, IRCCS and Humanitas University, IRCCS, Milan, Italy. IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino and University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy. University of Milano Bicocca, Monza, Italy. University of Udine, Azienda sanitaria universitaria Friuli Centrale Udine, Udine, Italy. University of Verona, Italy. Rheumazentrum Schleswig-Holstein Mitte, Neum nster, Germany. Hospital Cl nic, University of Barcelona and Institut d'investigacions Biom diques August Pi I Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain. ASST Grande Ospedale Metropolitano Niguarda, Milan, Italy. Heinrich Heine University D sseldorf, D sseldorf, Germany. Policlinico S. Matteo Fondazione, IRCCS, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy. University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy. Policlinico-Vittorio Emanuele San Marco University Hospital, Catania, Italy. University of Padova, Padova, Italy. University Hospital Ospedali Riuniti, Ancona, Italy. San Giovanni Bosco Hospital and University of Turin, Turin, Italy. Aldo Moro University of Bari, Bari, Italy. Lund University, Sk ne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden, and University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. Medius Kliniken, University of T bingen, Kirchheim unter Teck, Germany. Dijon University Hospital, Dijon, France. University of Siena, Siena, Italy. University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. University Hospital Center of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland. Azienda USL-IRCCS di Reggio Emilia, IRCCS, and Universit  di Modena e Reggio Emilia, Reggio Emilia, Italy. ASST Spedali Civili of Brescia, Brescia, Italy. University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany. University of Florence and Meyer Children's Hospital, Florence, Italy. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng