Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 213 Author: S nchez, J., Garc a, E., Lopez, J. F., Calle, A. and Buendia, J. A. Year: 2023 Title: Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drug (NSAID) Tolerance After Biological Therapy in Patients With NSAID-Exacerbated Respiratory Disease: A Randomized Comparative Trial Journal: J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract Volume: 11 Issue: 7 Pages: 2172-2179 Epub Date: 20230503 Date: Jul Short Title: Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drug (NSAID) Tolerance After Biological Therapy in Patients With NSAID-Exacerbated Respiratory Disease: A Randomized Comparative Trial DOI: 10.1016/j.jaip.2023.04.033 Accession Number: 37146885 Keywords: Humans Omalizumab/therapeutic use Pilot Projects Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal/adverse effects *Asthma/drug therapy Aspirin/therapeutic use *Respiration Disorders Biological Therapy Inflammation/drug therapy Acetylsalicylic acid Aspirin Benralizumab Dupilumab Mepolizumab Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug exacerbated respiratory disease Omalizumab Rhinosinusitis Samter s triad Abstract: BACKGROUND: There are no prospective studies comparing how biological therapies affect nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) tolerance in NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease. OBJECTIVE: To study the induction of NSAID tolerance after biological therapy in patients with NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease. METHODS: A prospective pilot study in a real-world clinic setting was conducted among subjects with severe asthma and type 2 inflammation. A random allocation of therapy was carried out: benralizumab, dupilumab, mepolizumab, or omalizumab. NSAID intolerance was confirmed by an oral challenge test (OCT) using acetyl-salicylic acid (ASA-OCT). The principal outcome was NSAID tolerance according to OCT before and after 6 months of each biological therapy (intragroup comparisons). As exploratory outcomes, we compared NSAID tolerance between biological therapies (intergroup comparisons). RESULTS: A total of 38 subjects were included; 9 received benralizumab, 10 dupilumab, 9 mepolizumab, and 10 omalizumab. There was an increase in the concentration needed to produce a reaction during ASA-OCT with omalizumab (P < .001) and dupilumab (P = .004) but not with mepolizumab and benralizumab. Omalizumab and dupilumab achieved the highest frequency of NSAID tolerance (omalizumab 60%, dupilumab 40%, mepolizumab 22%, and benralizumab 22%). CONCLUSIONS: Biological therapies for asthma are useful for inducing NSAID tolerance; however, in patients with type 2 inflammation and high levels of total IgE, atopy, and eosinophils, anti-IgE or anti-IL4/13 seem to be more effective than antieosinophilic therapies. Omalizumab and dupilumab increased ASA tolerance, whereas mepolizumab and benralizumab did not. Future trials will be able to clarify this finding. Notes: 2213-2201 S nchez, Jorge Garc a, Elizabeth Lopez, Juan-Felipe Calle, Ana Buendia, Jefferson-Antonio Journal Article Randomized Controlled Trial Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't United States 2023/05/06 J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2023 Jul;11(7):2172-2179. doi: 10.1016/j.jaip.2023.04.033. Epub 2023 May 3. Author Address: Hospital "Alma Mater de Antioquia, " Group of Clinical and Experimental Allergy (GACE), University of Antioquia, Medell n, Colombia. Electronic address: jorgem.sanchez@udea.edu.co. Surgical Medical Unit of Otorhinolaryngology (UNIMEQ-ORL), Bogot , Colombia. Hospital "Alma Mater de Antioquia, " Group of Clinical and Experimental Allergy (GACE), University of Antioquia, Medell n, Colombia. Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Medicine, Research Group in Pharmacology and Toxicology (INFARTO), University of Antioquia, Medell n, Colombia. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng