Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 8 Author: Nagase, H., Suzukawa, M., Oishi, K. and Matsunaga, K. Year: 2023 Title: Biologics for severe asthma: The real-world evidence, effectiveness of switching, and prediction factors for the efficacy Journal: Allergol Int Volume: 72 Issue: 1 Pages: 11-23 Epub Date: 20221219 Date: Jan Short Title: Biologics for severe asthma: The real-world evidence, effectiveness of switching, and prediction factors for the efficacy ISSN: 1323-8930 DOI: 10.1016/j.alit.2022.11.008 Accession Number: 36543689 Keywords: Humans Omalizumab/therapeutic use *Asthma/drug therapy Eosinophils Interleukin-5 Interleukin-13 *Biological Products/therapeutic use *Anti-Asthmatic Agents/therapeutic use Biological drugs Prediction Real-world Remission Switching Abstract: Biologics have been a key component of severe asthma treatment, and there are currently biologics available that target IgE, IL-5, IL-4/IL-13, and TSLP. Randomized controlled trials have established clinical evidence, but a significant portion of patients with severe asthma in real-life settings would have been excluded from those trials. Therefore, real-world research is necessary, and there is a growing body of information about the long-term efficacy and safety of biologics. Multiple clinical phenotypes of severe asthma exist, and it is crucial to choose patients based on their phenotypes. Blood eosinophil count is an important biomarker for anti-IL-5 therapies, and FeNO and eosinophil counts serve as prediction markers for dupilumab. Reliable markers for predicting response, however, have not yet been fully established for omalizumab. Identification of clinical or biological prediction factors is crucial for the path toward clinical remission because the current treatment goal includes clinical remission, which is defined as a realistic goal for remission off treatment. Additionally, since there are now multiple biologic options and overlaps in eligibility for biologics in clinical practice, the evidence regarding the effectiveness of switching the biologics is crucial. Investigations into the clinical trajectory following the cessation of biologics are another important issue. Recent research on omalizumab, mepolizumab, benralizumab and dupilumab's real-world effectiveness, the prediction factor for the efficacy, and the impact of switching or discontinuation will be reviewed and discussed in this review. Notes: 1440-1592 Nagase, Hiroyuki Suzukawa, Maho Oishi, Keiji Matsunaga, Kazuto Journal Article Review England 2022/12/22 Allergol Int. 2023 Jan;72(1):11-23. doi: 10.1016/j.alit.2022.11.008. Epub 2022 Dec 19. Author Address: Division of Respiratory Medicine and Allergology, Department of Medicine, Teikyo University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: nagaseh@med.teikyo-u.ac.jp. Asthma Allergy and Rheumatology Center, Clinical Research Center, National Hospital Organization Tokyo National Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: fueta-tky@umin.ac.jp. Department of Respiratory Medicine and Infectious Disease, Graduate School of Medicine, Yamaguchi University, Ube, Japan. Department of Respiratory Medicine and Infectious Disease, Graduate School of Medicine, Yamaguchi University, Ube, Japan. Electronic address: kazmatsu@yamaguchi-u.ac.jp. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng