Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 425 Author: Ortega, H., Li, H., Suruki, R., Albers, F., Gordon, D. and Yancey, S. Year: 2014 Title: Cluster analysis and characterization of response to mepolizumab. A step closer to personalized medicine for patients with severe asthma Journal: Ann Am Thorac Soc Volume: 11 Issue: 7 Pages: 1011-7 Date: Sep Short Title: Cluster analysis and characterization of response to mepolizumab. A step closer to personalized medicine for patients with severe asthma ISSN: 2325-6621 DOI: 10.1513/AnnalsATS.201312-454OC Accession Number: 24983709 Keywords: Adult Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/*administration & dosage Asthma/diagnosis/*drug therapy Cluster Analysis Confidence Intervals Disease Progression Dose-Response Relationship, Drug Drug Administration Schedule Eosinophils/cytology Female Follow-Up Studies Humans Injections, Intravenous Leukocyte Count Linear Models Male Maximum Tolerated Dose Middle Aged Precision Medicine/*methods Prospective Studies Reference Values Severity of Illness Index Treatment Outcome asthma exacerbations eosinophils mepolizumab severe asthma Abstract: RATIONALE: Detailed characterization of asthma phenotypes is essential for identification of responder populations to allow directed personalized medical intervention. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to identify distinctive patient characteristics within subgroups of a well-characterized severe asthma population at risk for exacerbations and to determine the treatment response within each subgroup. METHODS: A supervised cluster analysis with recursive partitioning approach was applied to data from the Dose Ranging Efficacy And safety with Mepolizumab (DREAM) study to identify characteristics that maximized the differences across subgroups. Exacerbation rate ratios were calculated for each cluster comparing mepolizumab versus placebo. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Three predictors were identified in four primary clusters: blood eosinophils, airway reversibility, and body mass index. The reduction in exacerbations was significantly greater in patients who received mepolizumab (clusters 2, 3, and 4) with raised eosinophils (responder population). Cluster 2 with low airway reversibility (mean, 11%) had a 53% reduction in exacerbations. These patients more frequently reported sinusitis and nasal polyposis. Those with higher airway reversibility (mean, 28%) were further split by body mass index. The nonobese versus obese (clusters 3 and 4) had a 35 and 67% reduction in exacerbations, respectively. Cluster 4 also had patients with more comorbidities, including hypertension, weight gain, and anxiety. CONCLUSIONS: Using supervised cluster analysis helped identify specific patient characteristics related to disease and therapeutic response. Patients with eosinophilic inflammation received significant therapeutic benefit with mepolizumab, and responses differed within clusters. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01000506). Notes: 2325-6621 Ortega, Hector Li, Hao Suruki, Robert Albers, Frank Gordon, David Yancey, Steven Comparative Study Journal Article Randomized Controlled Trial Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't United States 2014/07/02 Ann Am Thorac Soc. 2014 Sep;11(7):1011-7. doi: 10.1513/AnnalsATS.201312-454OC. Author Address: 1 Respiratory Therapy Area Unit, Medicines Development Center, and. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng