Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 446 Author: Sehmi, R., Smith, S. G., Kjarsgaard, M., Radford, K., Boulet, L. P., Lemiere, C., Prazma, C. M., Ortega, H., Martin, J. G. and Nair, P. Year: 2016 Title: Role of local eosinophilopoietic processes in the development of airway eosinophilia in prednisone-dependent severe asthma Journal: Clin Exp Allergy Volume: 46 Issue: 6 Pages: 793-802 Date: Jun Short Title: Role of local eosinophilopoietic processes in the development of airway eosinophilia in prednisone-dependent severe asthma ISSN: 0954-7894 DOI: 10.1111/cea.12695 Accession Number: 26685004 Keywords: Adult Aged Anti-Asthmatic Agents/therapeutic use Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/therapeutic use Asthma/*diagnosis/drug therapy/*etiology Comorbidity Cross-Sectional Studies Eosinophilia/*pathology Eosinophils/drug effects/*immunology/metabolism Female Granulocyte Precursor Cells/cytology/drug effects/metabolism Humans Leukocyte Count Male Middle Aged *Myelopoiesis Prednisone/therapeutic use Pulmonary Eosinophilia/immunology/metabolism/pathology Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic Respiratory Function Tests Severity of Illness Index Sputum/cytology Treatment Outcome anti-IL5 therapy in situ eosinophilopoiesis severe eosinophilic asthma Abstract: BACKGROUND: In severe asthmatics with persistent airway eosinophilia, blockade of interleukin-5 has significant steroid-sparing effects and attenuates blood and sputum eosinophilia. The contribution of local maturational processes of progenitors within the airways relative to the recruitment of mature cells from the peripheral circulation to the development of airway eosinophilia is not known. We hypothesize that local eosinophilopoiesis may be the predominant process that drives persistent airway eosinophilia and corticosteroid requirement in severe asthmatics. OBJECTIVES: In a cross-sectional study, the number and growth potential of eosinophil-lineage-committed progenitors (EoP) were assayed in 21 severe eosinophilic asthmatics, 19 mild asthmatics, eight COPD patients and eight normal subjects. The effect of anti-IL-5 treatment on mature eosinophils and EoP numbers was made in severe eosinophilic asthmatics who participated in a randomized clinical trial of mepolizumab (substudy of a larger GSK sponsored global phase III trial, MEA115575) where subjects received mepolizumab (100 mg, n = 9) or placebo (n = 8), as six monthly subcutaneous injections. RESULTS: Mature eosinophil and EoP numbers were significantly greater in the sputum of severe asthmatics compared with all other subject groups. In colony-forming assays, EoP from blood of severe asthmatics demonstrated a greater response to IL-5 than mild asthmatics. Treatment of severe asthmatics with mepolizumab significantly attenuated blood eosinophils and increased EoP numbers consistent with blockade of systemic eosinophilopoiesis. There was however no significant treatment effect on mature eosinophils, sputum EoP numbers or the prednisone maintenance dose. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Patients with severe eosinophilic asthma have an exaggerated eosinophilopoeitic process in their airways. Treatment with 100 mg subcutaneous mepolizumab significantly attenuated systemic differentiation of eosinophils, but did not suppress local airway eosinophil differentiation to mature cells. Targeting IL-5-driven eosinophil differentiation locally within the lung maybe of relevance for optimal control of airway eosinophilia and asthma. Notes: 1365-2222 Sehmi, R Smith, S G Kjarsgaard, M Radford, K Boulet, L-P Lemiere, C Prazma, C M Ortega, H Martin, J G Nair, P Journal Article Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't England 2015/12/20 Clin Exp Allergy. 2016 Jun;46(6):793-802. doi: 10.1111/cea.12695. Author Address: Department of Medicine, McMaster University and Firestone Institute for Respiratory Health, St. Joseph's Healthcare, Hamilton, ON, Canada. Institut Universitaire de cardiologie et de pneumologie de Qu bec, Qu bec, QC, Canada. Division of Pneumologie, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada. GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA. Meakins-Christie Laboratories, Research Institute of the McGill University Health Center, Montreal, QC, Canada. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng