Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 145 Author: Roy, P., Rafa, Z. I., Haque, S. N., Tasha, T., Arko, S. B., Agrawal, H., Razu, M. I., Parisapogu, A., Maisha, S., Siddique, M. A., Abbasi, F. K., Shama, N., Dev Nath, S., Ghosh, A. S. and Quader, F. Year: 2022 Title: The Impact of Tezepelumab in Uncontrolled Severe Asthma: A Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials Journal: Cureus Volume: 14 Issue: 12 Pages: e32156 Epub Date: 20221203 Date: Dec Short Title: The Impact of Tezepelumab in Uncontrolled Severe Asthma: A Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials ISSN: 2168-8184 (Print) 2168-8184 DOI: 10.7759/cureus.32156 Legal Note: The authors have declared that no competing interests exist. PMCID: PMC9807140 Accession Number: 36601189 Keywords: asthma chronic respiratory inflammation eosinophil feno tezepelumab thymic stromal lymphopoietin Abstract: Asthma, a chronic illness, is characterized by inflammation and airway constriction. Uncontrolled severe asthma is related to poor quality of life and increased utilization of health resources. Conventional treatments are associated with a significant amount of adverse effects. Recent years have seen the identification of various molecular effectors and signaling pathways as interesting targets for the biological therapy of severe asthma that is resistant to current therapies. Because they only target some downstream components of the inflammatory response in asthma, leaving other components unaffected, current biologic treatments only lower the exacerbation rate by 50%. If we focus on the upstream mediators of the inflammatory response in asthma, it might have a greater effect and be more efficient. Tezepelumab is a human monoclonal IgG2 antibody that specifically binds to thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) at the level of its TSLPR (thymic stromal lymphopoietin receptor) binding site, inhibiting the interaction between human TSLP and TSLPR. It is being used to treat the cytokines on the respiratory epithelial layer known as "alarmins." It is the only biologic drug available for treating severe uncontrolled asthma, despite limitations in biomarker and phenotype. In light of recent developments, the lack of knowledge on tezepelumab prompts us to publish a comprehensive systematic review. We discovered that regardless of blood eosinophil level and fractional exhaled nitric oxide levels, tezepelumab dramatically lowers asthma exacerbation in patients with severe uncontrolled asthma when compared to placebo. Tezepelumab also lessens patients' demand for healthcare resources while improving clinical indicators of lung function, health-related quality of life, and asthma management in patients. Tezepelumab plays a role in enhancing pre-bronchodilator FEV1 and lowering blood eosinophil count and fractional exhaled nitric oxide in patients with or without chronic allergies (FeNO). There have been no reports of fatalities or severe adverse events connected to tezepelumab. Notes: 2168-8184 Roy, Pooja Rafa, Zahin Islam Haque, Sharar Naiarin Tasha, Tasniem Arko, Soumyadipto B Agrawal, Harshita Razu, Md Ibrahim Parisapogu, Anusha Maisha, Sadia Siddique, Mohammad A Abbasi, Farhana Karim Shama, Nishat Dev Nath, Supti Ghosh, Ammy S Quader, Fahmina Journal Article Review United States 2023/01/06 Cureus. 2022 Dec 3;14(12):e32156. doi: 10.7759/cureus.32156. eCollection 2022 Dec. Author Address: Internal Medicine, Harlem Hospital Center, New York, USA. Internal Medicine, Ibn Sina Medical College Hospital, Dhaka, BGD. Internal Medicine, Dhaka Medical College Hospital, Dhaka, BGD. Internal Medicine, Rajshahi Medical College, Rajshahi, BGD. Medical Intern, Dhaka Medical College Hospital, Dhaka, BGD. Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, USA. Otolaryngology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, USA. Infectious Diseases, Mayo Clinic , Rochester, USA. Internal Medicine, Sher-E-Bangla Medical College, Barisal, Barisal, BGD. Internal Medicine, North East Medical College Hospital, Sylhet, BGD. Internal Medicine, Community Based Medical College Bangladesh, Mymensingh, BGD. Internal Medicine, Bangladesh Institute of Research and Rehabilitation in Diabetes, Endocrine and Metabolic Disorders, Dhaka, BGD. Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, Maryland, USA. Internal Medicine, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, Chittagong, BGD. Internal Medicine, Sir Salimullah Medical College, Dhaka, BGD. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng