Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 334 Author: Mullol, J., Laidlaw, T. M., Bachert, C., Mannent, L. P., Canonica, G. W., Han, J. K., Maspero, J. F., Picado, C., Daizadeh, N., Ortiz, B., Li, Y., Ruddy, M., Laws, E. and Amin, N. Year: 2022 Title: Efficacy and safety of dupilumab in patients with uncontrolled severe chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps and a clinical diagnosis of NSAID-ERD: Results from two randomized placebo-controlled phase 3 trials Journal: Allergy Volume: 77 Issue: 4 Pages: 1231-1244 Epub Date: 20211001 Date: Apr Short Title: Efficacy and safety of dupilumab in patients with uncontrolled severe chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps and a clinical diagnosis of NSAID-ERD: Results from two randomized placebo-controlled phase 3 trials ISSN: 0105-4538 (Print) 0105-4538 DOI: 10.1111/all.15067 Legal Note: J. Mullol reports non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sanofi, during the conduct of the study and grants, personal fees, and other from ALK Abell , AstraZeneca, Genentech, GlaxoSmithKline, Glenmark, Menarini, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, Mylan Meda Pharmaceuticals (Viatris), Novartis, Proctor & Gamble, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Sanofi Genzyme, UCB Pharma, and Uriach Group, outside the submitted work. T.M. Laidlaw reports non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sanofi, during the conduct of the study and other from AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Sanofi Aventis, outside the submitted work. C. Bachert reports non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sanofi, during the conduct of the study and personal fees and other from ALK, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Mylan, Novartis, Sanofi, and Stallergenes Greer, outside the submitted work. L.P. Mannent reports personal fees, non financial support, and other from Sanofi; and non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., during the conduct of the study. G.W. Canonica reports non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sanofi, during the conduct of the study and personal fees and other from ALK, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline, HAL Allergy, Menarini, Mundipharma, Novartis, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Sanofi, Stallergenes Greer, and Uriach Group, outside the submitted work. J.K. Han reports non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sanofi, during the conduct of the study; and other from Sanofi, outside the submitted work. J.F. Maspero reports non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sanofi, during the conduct of the study; grants and personal fees from Novartis; and personal fees from AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Menarini, Sanofi, Teva, and Uriach Group, outside the submitted work. C. Picado reports non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Sanofi, during the conduct of the study; grants, personal fees, and other from Novartis; and personal fees from AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline and Menarini, outside the submitted work. N. Daizadeh reports personal fees and non financial support from Sanofi; and non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., during the conduct of the study. B. Ortiz reports personal fees, non financial support, and other from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; and non financial support from Sanofi, during the conduct of the study. Y. Li reports personal fees, non financial support, and other from Sanofi; and non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., during the conduct of the study. M. Ruddy reports personal fees, non financial support, and other from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; and non financial support from Sanofi, during the conduct of the study. E. Laws reports personal fees, non financial support, and other from Sanofi; and non financial support from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., during the conduct of the study. N. Amin reports personal fees, non financial support, and other from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; and non financial support from Sanofi, during the conduct of the study. PMCID: PMC9292324 Accession Number: 34459002 Keywords: Adult Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal/adverse effects *Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/adverse effects Asthma/drug therapy Chronic Disease Clinical Trials, Phase III as Topic Humans *Nasal Polyps/complications Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic *Respiration Disorders/complications/diagnosis *Sinusitis/drug therapy Treatment Outcome Il-13 Il-4 chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps dupilumab non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-exacerbated respiratory disease Abstract: BACKGROUND: About one-tenth of patients with difficult-to-treat chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) have comorbid non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-exacerbated respiratory disease (NSAID-ERD). Dupilumab, a fully human monoclonal antibody that blocks the shared interleukin (IL)-4/IL-13 receptor component, is an approved add-on treatment in severe CRSwNP. This post hoc analysis evaluated dupilumab efficacy and safety in patients with CRSwNP with/without NSAID-ERD. METHODS: Data were pooled from the phase 3 SINUS-24 and SINUS-52 studies in adults with uncontrolled severe CRSwNP who received dupilumab 300 mg or placebo every 2 weeks. CRSwNP, nasal airflow, lung function, and asthma control outcomes at Week 24 were evaluated, and treatment-subgroup interactions were assessed for patients with and without NSAID-ERD. RESULTS: Of 724 patients, 204 (28.2%) had a diagnosis of NSAID-ERD. At Week 24, least squares mean treatment differences demonstrated significant improvements in nasal polyp score, nasal congestion (NC), Lund-Mackay computed tomography, 22-item Sinonasal Outcome Test (SNOT-22), Total Symptom Score (TSS), rhinosinusitis severity visual analog scale, peak nasal inspiratory flow (PNIF), six-item Asthma Control Questionnaire score, and improvement in smell with dupilumab versus placebo (all p < .0001) in patients with NSAID-ERD. Treatment comparisons demonstrated significantly greater improvements with dupilumab in patients with versus without NSAID-ERD for NC (p = .0044), SNOT-22 (p = .0313), TSS (p = .0425), and PNIF (p = .0123). CONCLUSIONS: In patients with uncontrolled severe CRSwNP, dupilumab significantly improved objective measures and patient-reported symptoms to a greater extent in the presence of comorbid NSAID-ERD than without. Dupilumab was well tolerated in patients with/without NSAID-ERD. Notes: 1398-9995 Mullol, Joaquim Orcid: 0000-0003-3463-5007 Laidlaw, Tanya M Orcid: 0000-0001-6709-9795 Bachert, Claus Orcid: 0000-0003-4742-1665 Mannent, Leda P Canonica, G Walter Orcid: 0000-0001-8467-2557 Han, Joseph K Maspero, Jorge F Orcid: 0000-0001-9750-2346 Picado, Cesar Orcid: 0000-0001-7400-4993 Daizadeh, Nadia Orcid: 0000-0002-4136-4068 Ortiz, Benjamin Li, Yongtao Ruddy, Marcella Laws, Elizabeth Amin, Nikhil Orcid: 0000-0002-1865-9861 Journal Article Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't Denmark 2021/08/31 Allergy. 2022 Apr;77(4):1231-1244. doi: 10.1111/all.15067. Epub 2021 Oct 1. Author Address: Rhinology Unit & Smell Clinic, ENT Department, Hospital Cl nic, IDIBAPS, Universitat de Barcelona, CIBERES, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. Upper Airways Research Laboratory and Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium. Division of ENT Diseases, CLINTEX, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. First Affiliated Hosptial, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China. Global Clinical Development, Sanofi, Chilly-Mazarin, France. Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Personalized Medicine Asthma & Allergy Unit-IRCCS Humanitas Research Hospital, Rozzano, Milan, Italy. Department of Otolaryngology & Head and Neck Surgery, Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, Virginia, USA. Allergy and Respiratory Medicine, Fundaci n CIDEA, Buenos Aires, Argentina. Clinical & Experimental Respiratory Immunoallergy, IDIBAPS, Universitat de Barcelona, CIBERES, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. Biostatistics, Sanofi, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. Immunology and Allergy Medical Affairs, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., New York, USA. Global Medical Affairs Respiratory, Sanofi, Bridgewater, New Jersey, USA. Clinical Sciences Global Development, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Tarrytown, New Jersey, USA. Immunology and Inflammation, Sanofi, Bridgewater, New Jersey, USA. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng