Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 191 Author: Pa ac   etin, G., Kepil  zdemir, S., Can Bostan,  ,  ztop, N.,  elebi S zener, Z., Karakaya, G., Gelincik Akkor, A., Y lmaz,  , Mungan, D. and Bavbek, S. Year: 2023 Title: [Biologics for the treatment of severe asthma: Current status report 2023] Journal: Tuberk Toraks Volume: 71 Issue: 2 Pages: 176-187 Date: Jun Short Title: [Biologics for the treatment of severe asthma: Current status report 2023] ISSN: 0494-1373 (Print) 0494-1373 DOI: 10.5578/tt.20239921 Original Publication: A r ast m tedavisinde biyolojikler: G ncel durum raporu 2023. PMCID: PMC10795269 Accession Number: 37345400 Keywords: Humans *Anti-Asthmatic Agents/adverse effects *Asthma/drug therapy Biological Factors/therapeutic use *Biological Products/therapeutic use Omalizumab/therapeutic use Quality of Life Abstract: ABSTRACT: BIOLOGICS FOR THE TREATMENT OF SEVERE ASTHMA: CURRENT STATUS REPORT 2023: Severe asthma is associated with increased use of healthcare services, significant deterioration in the quality of life, and high disease and economic burden on patients and societies. Additional treatments are required for severe forms of asthma. Biological agents are recommended for the treatment of severe asthma. In this current status report, we aimed to evaluate the efficacy, effectiveness, and safety data of approved biologics; omalizumab, mepolizumab, reslizumab, benralizumab, dupilumab, and tezepelumab, in the treatment of severe asthma and appropriate patient profiles for these biologics. Pubmed and Cochrane databases based on randomized controlled trials, posthoc analyses, meta-analyses, and real-life studies examining the efficacy and effectiveness of biologics in severe asthma were searched, and the results of these studies on important asthma outcomes were reviewed. Existing studies have shown that all the approved biologic agents targeting cells, receptors, and mediators involved in type 2 inflammation in the bronchial wall in severe asthma significantly reduce asthma exacerbations, reduce the need for oral corticosteroids, and improve asthma control, quality of life, and pulmonary functions. Characterizing the asthma endotype and phenotype in patients with severe asthma and determining which treatment would be more appropriate for a particular patient is an essential step in personalized treatment. Severe asthma is associated with increased use of healthcare services, significant deterioration in the quality of life, and high disease and economic burden on patients and societies. Additional treatments are required for severe forms of asthma. Biological agents are recommended for the treatment of severe asthma. In this current status report, we aimed to evaluate the efficacy, effectiveness, and safety data of approved biologics; omalizumab, mepolizumab, reslizumab, benralizumab, dupilumab, and tezepelumab, in the treatment of severe asthma and appropriate patient profiles for these biologics. Pubmed and Cochrane databases based on randomized controlled trials, posthoc analyses, meta-analyses, and real-life studies examining the efficacy and effectiveness of biologics in severe asthma were searched, and the results of these studies on important asthma outcomes were reviewed. Existing studies have shown that all the approved biologic agents targeting cells, receptors, and mediators involved in type 2 inflammation in the bronchial wall in severe asthma significantly reduce asthma exacerbations, reduce the need for oral corticosteroids, and improve asthma control, quality of life, and pulmonary functions. Characterizing the asthma endotype and phenotype in patients with severe asthma and determining which treatment would be more appropriate for a particular patient is an essential step in personalized treatment. eng Notes: 2980-3187 Pa ac   etin, G lden Kepil  zdemir, Se il Can Bostan,  zge ztop, Nida elebi S zener, Zeynep Karakaya, G l Gelincik Akkor, Asl Y lmaz,  nsu Mungan, Dil ad Bavbek, Sevim English Abstract Journal Article Review Turkey 2023/06/22 Tuberk Toraks. 2023 Jun;71(2):176-187. doi: 10.5578/tt.20239921. Author Address: Division of Immunology and Allergy, Department of Chest Diseases, Erciyes University Faculty of Medicine, Kayseri, T rkiye. Division of Allergy and Immunology, Department of Chest Diseases, University of Health Sciences, Dr. Suat Seren Chest Diseases and Surgery Training and Research Hospital,  zmir, T rkiye. Division of Immunology and Allergy, Department of Chest Diseases, Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine, Ankara, T rkiye. Clinic of Adult Immunology and Allergy, Ba ak ehir Cam and Sakura City Hospital,  stanbul, T rkiye. Clinic of Immunology and Allergy, Ankara Bilkent City Hospital, Ankara, T rkiye. Division of Immunology and Allergic Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine,  stanbul University Faculty of Medicine,  stanbul, T rkiye. Division of Immunology and Allergy, Department of Chest Diseases, Ankara University Faculty of Medicine, Ankara, T rkiye. Database Provider: NLM Language: tur