Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 160 Author: Rodr guez-Garc a, C., Blanco-Aparicio, M., Nieto-Fontarigo, J. J., Blanco-Cid, N., Gonzalez-Fernandez, C., Mosteiro-A on, M., Calvo-Alvarez, U., Perez-De-Llano, L., Corbacho-Abelaira, M. D., Lourido-Cebreiro, T., Dominguez-Juncal, L. M., Crespo-Diz, C., Dacal-Quintas, R., Pallares-Sanmartin, A., Dacal-Rivas, D. and Gonzalez-Barcala, F. J. Year: 2021 Title: Efficacy of mepolizumab in usual clinical practice and characteristics of responders Journal: Respir Med Volume: 187 Pages: 106595 Epub Date: 20210902 Date: Oct Short Title: Efficacy of mepolizumab in usual clinical practice and characteristics of responders ISSN: 0954-6111 DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2021.106595 Accession Number: 34492540 Keywords: Aged Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/administration & dosage/*therapeutic use Asthma/*drug therapy/*etiology Eosinophilia/*complications/*drug therapy Female Follow-Up Studies Glucocorticoids/administration & dosage Humans Male Middle Aged Patient Acuity Retrospective Studies Time Factors Treatment Outcome Asthma Eosinophils Interleukin-5 Mepolizumab Monoclonal antibodies Precision medicine Abstract: BACKGROUND: Severe eosinophilic asthma is a high-burden disease. Mepolizumab has been effective in several randomized clinical trials. However, such success might not be applicable to patients treated in usual clinical practice. The objectives of this article are to evaluate the efficacy of mepolizumab in severe uncontrolled eosinophilic asthma under usual clinical practice, and to determine characteristics associated with the response to this treatment. METHODS: We have conducted a retrospective, multicentre study, including all adult patients with severe uncontrolled eosinophilic asthma in Galicia, Spain, on whom mepolizumab treatment was started before June 2020, at least 6 months before the time of inclusion, and had received at least one dose of the drug. Patient characteristics, clinical data, respiratory function and comorbidities were collected at baseline and at the 6-month-follow-up. Responders and super-responders were defined according to clinical response and requirement of systemic corticosteroids. RESULTS: 122 patients (mean age 58 years old) were included. In the follow-up treatment 6 months later, 75.4% of the patients were well-controlled, displaying a significant reduction in blood eosinophil counts (p < 0.001), hospital admissions and disease exacerbations (p < 0.001), and had their systemic glucocorticosteroid dose significantly reduced (p < 0.001). The inhaled corticosteroid dose was also lowered (p < 0.01) after 6 months of treatment. Around two-thirds had a clinically significant increase in FEV1, 95% of the patients were considered responders and 43% super-responders. CONCLUSION: In routine clinical practice, mepolizumab is effective in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma and it has a good safety profile. Notes: 1532-3064 Rodr guez-Garc a, Carlota Blanco-Aparicio, Marina Nieto-Fontarigo, Juan Jos Blanco-Cid, Nagore Gonzalez-Fernandez, Coral Mosteiro-A on, Mar Calvo-Alvarez, Ux o Perez-De-Llano, Luis Corbacho-Abelaira, Mar a Dolores Lourido-Cebreiro, Tamara Dominguez-Juncal, Luis Miguel Crespo-Diz, Carlos Dacal-Quintas, Raquel Pallares-Sanmartin, Abel Dacal-Rivas, David Gonzalez-Barcala, Francisco Javier Journal Article Multicenter Study England 2021/09/08 Respir Med. 2021 Oct;187:106595. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2021.106595. Epub 2021 Sep 2. Author Address: Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital of Santiago de Compostela, Spain; Translational Research in Airway Diseases Group (TRIAD)-Health Research Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), Spain. Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital of A Coru a, Spain. Translational Research in Airway Diseases Group (TRIAD)-Health Research Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), Spain; Respiratory Immunopharmacology Group, Department of Experimental Medical Science, Lund University, Sweden. Electronic address: juanjose.nieto.fontarigo@gmail.com. Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital Lucus Augusti, Spain. Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital of Ourense, Spain. Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital Alvaro Cunqueiro, Spain. Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital of El Ferrol, Spain. Department of Respiratory Medicine, Ribera Hospital POVISA of Vigo, Spain. Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital of Santiago de Compostela, Spain. Department of Hospital Pharmacy, University Hospital of Pontevedra, Spain; Health Research Institute of Galicia Sur, Spain. Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital of Pontevedra, Spain. Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital of Santiago de Compostela, Spain; Translational Research in Airway Diseases Group (TRIAD)-Health Research Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), Spain; Department of Medicine, University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain; Spanish Biomedical Research Networking Centre (CIBER-ES), Carlos III Health Research Institute, Spain. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng