Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 87 Author: Nordenmark, L. H., Hellqvist,  , Emson, C., Diver, S., Porsbjerg, C., Griffiths, J. M., Newell, J. D., Peterson, S., Pawlikowska, B., Parnes, J. R., Megally, A., Colice, G. and Brightling, C. E. Year: 2023 Title: Tezepelumab and Mucus Plugs in Patients with Moderate-to-Severe Asthma Journal: NEJM Evid Volume: 2 Issue: 10 Pages: EVIDoa2300135 Epub Date: 20230920 Date: Oct Short Title: Tezepelumab and Mucus Plugs in Patients with Moderate-to-Severe Asthma ISSN: 2766-5526 DOI: 10.1056/EVIDoa2300135 Accession Number: 38320181 Keywords: Humans *Airway Obstruction/complications Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/therapeutic use *Asthma/complications Mucus Abstract: BACKGROUND: Mucus plugs in asthmatic airways are associated with airway obstruction and the activity of inflammatory cytokines, specifically interleukin (IL)-5 and IL-13, and they may provide an opportunity for targeted therapy. This analysis of the CASCADE (Study to Evaluate Tezepelumab on Airway Inflammation in Adults With Uncontrolled Asthma) placebo-controlled trial used computed tomography (CT) imaging to assess mucus plugs in patients with moderate-to-severe, uncontrolled asthma who received tezepelumab or placebo. METHODS: CASCADE was an exploratory, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial examining the anti-inflammatory effect of tezepelumab. Patients (aged 18 to 75 years old) were randomly assigned 1:1 to 210 mg tezepelumab or placebo every 4 weeks subcutaneously for at least 28 weeks. An expert radiologist, blinded to treatment groups and time points, objectively scored 18 lung segments for the presence of mucus plugs in CT scans obtained before and after treatment; greater numbers of mucus plugs resulted in higher mucus plug scores. RESULTS: Absolute change from baseline (mean [ standard deviation]) in mucus plug score was  1.7 2.6 in patients receiving tezepelumab (n=37) and 0.0 1.4 in patients receiving placebo (n=45). At baseline, mucus plug scores correlated positively with levels of inflammatory biomarkers (blood eosinophils, eosinophil-derived neurotoxin, fractional exhaled nitric oxide, IL-5, and IL-13) and negatively with lung function measures (prebronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 second and forced mid-expiratory flow). In tezepelumab recipients, reductions in mucus plug scores were correlated with improvements in lung function and reductions in blood eosinophil count and levels of eosinophil-derived neurotoxin, a biomarker of eosinophilic degranulation. CONCLUSIONS: Tezepelumab was associated with a reduction in occlusive mucus plugs versus placebo in a randomized controlled trial in patients with moderate-to-severe, uncontrolled asthma. (Funded by AstraZeneca and Amgen Inc.; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT03688074.) Notes: 2766-5526 Nordenmark, Lars H Hellqvist,  sa Emson, Claire Diver, Sarah Porsbjerg, Celeste Griffiths, Janet M Newell, John D Peterson, Samuel Pawlikowska, Beata Parnes, Jane R Megally, Ayman Colice, Gene Brightling, Christopher E Clinical Trial Journal Article United States 2024/02/06 NEJM Evid. 2023 Oct;2(10):EVIDoa2300135. doi: 10.1056/EVIDoa2300135. Epub 2023 Sep 20. Author Address: Late-Stage Development, Respiratory and Immunology, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Oslo. Biometrics, Late-Stage Development, Respiratory and Immunology, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden. Translational Science and Experimental Medicine, Research and Early Development, Respiratory and Immunology, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, MD. National Institute for Health and Care Research, Leicester Biomedical Research Centre, University of Leicester, Leicester, United Kingdom. Department of Respiratory Medicine, Bispebjerg University Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen. Department of Radiology and Biomedical Engineering, University of Iowa, Iowa City. VIDA Diagnostics, Coralville, IA. Late-Stage Development, Respiratory and Immunology, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Warsaw, Poland. Early Development, Amgen, Thousand Oaks, CA. Late-Stage Development, Respiratory and Immunology, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, MD. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng