Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 133 Author: Quirce, S., Bobolea, I., Dom nguez-Ortega, J. and Barranco, P. Year: 2014 Title: Future biologic therapies in asthma Journal: Arch Bronconeumol Volume: 50 Issue: 8 Pages: 355-61 Epub Date: 20140329 Date: Aug Short Title: Future biologic therapies in asthma ISSN: 0300-2896 DOI: 10.1016/j.arbres.2014.02.002 Accession Number: 24685200 Keywords: Anti-Asthmatic Agents/*therapeutic use Antibodies, Anti-Idiotypic/therapeutic use Antibodies, Monoclonal/*therapeutic use Asthma/drug therapy/*therapy Biological Factors/therapeutic use Biological Therapy/*trends Clinical Trials as Topic Cytokines/antagonists & inhibitors Drug Design Forecasting Humans Immunoglobulin E/immunology Interleukins/antagonists & inhibitors Molecular Targeted Therapy T-Lymphocytes/immunology Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/antagonists & inhibitors Agentes biol gicos Anticuerpos monoclonales Asma Asthma Biological agents Monoclonal antibodies Therapy Tratamiento Abstract: Despite the administration of appropriate treatment, a high number of patients with asthma remain uncontrolled. This suggests the need for alternative treatments that are effective, safe and selective for the established asthma phenotypes, especially in patients with uncontrolled severe asthma. The most promising options among the new asthma treatments in development are biological therapies, particularly those monoclonal antibodies directed at selective targets. It should be noted that the different drugs, and especially the new biologics, act on very specific pathogenic pathways. Therefore, determination of the individual profile of predominant pathophysiological alterations of each patient will be increasingly important for prescribing the most appropriate treatment in each case. The treatment of severe allergic asthma with anti-IgE monoclonal antibody (omalizumab) has been shown to be effective in a large number of patients, and new anti-IgE antibodies with improved pharmacodynamic properties are being investigated. Among developing therapies, biologics designed to block certain pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-5 (mepolizumab) and IL-13 (lebrikizumab), have a greater chance of being used in the clinic. Perhaps blocking more than one cytokine pathway (such as IL-4 and IL-13 with dulipumab) might confer increased efficacy of treatment, along with acceptable safety. Stratification of asthma based on the predominant pathogenic mechanisms of each patient (phenoendotypes) is slowly, but probably irreversibly, emerging as a tailored medical approach to asthma, and is becoming a key factor in the development of drugs for this complex respiratory syndrome. Notes: 1579-2129 Quirce, Santiago Bobolea, Irina Dom nguez-Ortega, Javier Barranco, Pilar Journal Article Review Spain 2014/04/02 Arch Bronconeumol. 2014 Aug;50(8):355-61. doi: 10.1016/j.arbres.2014.02.002. Epub 2014 Mar 29. Author Address: Servicio de Alergolog a, Instituto de Investigaci n Hospital Universitario La Paz (IdiPAZ), Madrid, Espa a. Electronic address: santiago.quirce@salud.madrid.org. Servicio de Alergolog a, Instituto de Investigaci n Hospital Universitario La Paz (IdiPAZ), Madrid, Espa a. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng spa