Reference Type:  Journal Article
Record Number: 41
Author: Buchheit, K. M., Lewis, E., Gakpo, D., Hacker, J., Sohail, A., Taliaferro, F., Berreondo Giron, E., Asare, C., Vukovic, M., Bensko, J. C., Dwyer, D. F., Shalek, A. K., Ordovas-Montanes, J. and Laidlaw, T. M.
Year: 2021
Title: Mepolizumab targets multiple immune cells in aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease
Journal: J Allergy Clin Immunol
Volume: 148
Issue: 2
Pages: 574-584
Epub Date: 20210616
Date: Aug
Short Title: Mepolizumab targets multiple immune cells in aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease
ISSN: 0091-6749 (Print)
0091-6749
DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2021.05.043
Legal Note: Conflict of Interest: T Laidlaw has served on scientific advisory boards for GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi-Genzyme, Optinose, and Regeneron. K Buchheit has served on scientific advisory boards for AstraZeneca and GlaxoSmithKline. J Bensko has served on scientific advisory boards for GlaxoSmithKline. J Ordovas-Montanes reports compensation for consulting services with Cellarity and Hovione. A Shalek reports compensation for consulting and/or SAB membership from Merck, Honeycomb Biotechnologies, Cellarity, Repertoire Immune Medicines, Hovione, Third Rock Ventures, Ochre Bio, Relation Therapeutics, and Dahlia Biosciences. A Shalek has received research support from Merck, Novartis, Leo Pharma, Janssen, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Moore Foundation, the Pew-Stewart Trust, Fondation MIT, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Novo Nordisk and the FDA unrelated to this work. The rest of the authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose.
PMCID: PMC9096876
NIHMSID: NIHMS1797711
Accession Number: 34144111
Keywords: Adolescent
Adult
Aged
Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/*administration & dosage
*Asthma, Aspirin-Induced/drug therapy/immunology/urine
*Basophils/immunology/pathology
Eicosanoids/immunology/urine
*Eosinophils/immunology/pathology
Female
Humans
Interleukin-5/immunology
Interleukin-5 Receptor alpha Subunit/immunology
Male
Middle Aged
*Nasal Polyps/drug therapy/immunology/urine
Aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease
Crth2
Il-5
chronic rhinosinusitis
leukotriene
mepolizumab
nasal polyp
prostaglandin D(2)
prostaglandin F(2α)
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Eosinophilic asthma and nasal polyposis are hallmarks of aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD), and IL-5 inhibition has been shown to provide therapeutic benefit. However, IL-5Rα is expressed on many cells in addition to eosinophils, and the mechanisms by which IL-5 inhibition leads to clinical benefit in eosinophilic asthma and nasal polyposis are unlikely to be due exclusively to antieosinophil effects. OBJECTIVE: We sought to identify the mechanisms by which anti-IL-5 treatment with mepolizumab improves respiratory inflammation in AERD. METHODS: The clinical characteristics, circulating granulocytes, nasal scraping transcripts, eosinophilic cationic protein, tryptase, and antibody levels, and urinary and nasal eicosanoid levels were measured for 18 subjects with AERD who were taking mepolizumab and compared with those of 18 matched subjects with AERD who were not taking mepolizumab. RESULTS: Subjects taking mepolizumab had significantly fewer peripheral blood eosinophils and basophils, and those cells that remained had higher surface CRTH2 expression than did the cells from subjects not taking mepolizumab. Nasal prostaglandin F(2α), prostaglandin D(2) metabolites, leukotriene B(4), and thromboxane levels were lower in subjects taking mepolizumab, as were urinary levels of tetranor-prostaglandin D(2) and leukotriene E(4). The nasal epithelial cell transcripts that were overexpressed among subjects with AERD who were taking mepolizumab were enriched for genes involved in tight junction formation and cilium organization. Nasal and urinary prostaglandin E(2), tryptase, and antibody levels were not different between the 2 groups. CONCLUSION: IL-5 inhibition in AERD decreases production of inflammatory eicosanoids and upregulates tight junction-associated nasal epithelial cell transcripts, likely due to decreased IL-5 signaling on tissue mast cells, eosinophils, and epithelial cells. These direct effects on multiple relevant immune cells contribute to the mechanism of benefit afforded by mepolizumab.
Notes: 1097-6825
Buchheit, Kathleen M
Lewis, Erin
Gakpo, Deborah
Hacker, Jonathan
Sohail, Aaqib
Taliaferro, Faith
Berreondo Giron, Evans
Asare, Chelsea
Vukovic, Marko
Bensko, Jillian C
Dwyer, Daniel F
Shalek, Alex K
Ordovas-Montanes, Jose
Laidlaw, Tanya M
R01 HL128241/HL/NHLBI NIH HHS/United States
K23 AI139352/AI/NIAID NIH HHS/United States
T32 AI007306/AI/NIAID NIH HHS/United States
U19 AI095219/AI/NIAID NIH HHS/United States
DRG-2274-16/HHMI/Howard Hughes Medical Institute/United States
U24 AI118672/AI/NIAID NIH HHS/United States
Clinical Trial
Journal Article
Research Support, N.I.H., Extramural
Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't
United States
2021/06/19
J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2021 Aug;148(2):574-584. doi: 10.1016/j.jaci.2021.05.043. Epub 2021 Jun 16.
Author Address: Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, the Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Mass.
Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Mass.
Division of Gastroenterology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Mass; Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Mass.
Division of Gastroenterology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Mass.
Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Mass; Ragon Institute of Massachusetts General Hospital, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Mass; Institute for Medical Engineering and Science, Department of Chemistry, and Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Mass; Ragon Institute of Massachusetts General Hospital, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Mass; Institute for Medical Engineering and Science, Department of Chemistry, and Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, MIT, Cambridge, Mass; Program in Immunology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass; Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences & Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
Division of Gastroenterology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Mass; Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Mass; Program in Immunology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass; Harvard Stem Cell Institute, Cambridge, Mass.
Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, the Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Mass. Electronic address: tlaidlaw@bwh.harvard.edu.
Database Provider: NLM
Language: eng