Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 169 Author: Garc a, G., Bergna, M., V squez, J. C., Cano Salas, M. C., Miguel, J. L., Celis Preciado, C., Acu a Izcaray, A., Barros Monge, M., Garc a Batista, N., Zabert, I., Mayorga, J. L., Casanova Mendoza, R., Gutierrez, M., Montero Arias, M. F., Urtecho Perez, L., Ant nez, M., Williams Derby, V., Villatoro Azm quita, A., Moti o, L., De Oliveira, M. A., Rey Sanchez, D., Arroyo, M. and Rodriguez, M. Year: 2021 Title: Severe asthma: adding new evidence - Latin American Thoracic Society Journal: ERJ Open Res Volume: 7 Issue: 1 Epub Date: 20210118 Date: Jan Short Title: Severe asthma: adding new evidence - Latin American Thoracic Society ISSN: 2312-0541 (Print) 2312-0541 DOI: 10.1183/23120541.00318-2020 Legal Note: Conflict of interest: G. Garc a reports research grants from Novartis, GSK, Boehringer Ingelheim, AstraZeneca and Sanofi, and acting as a consultant/advisor/speaker for GSK, Astra Zeneca, Novartis and Sanofi. Conflict of interest: M. Bergna reports research grants from Novartis, GSK, Boehringer Ingelheim, Roche, AstraZeneca and Sanofi, and acting as a consultant/advisor/speaker for GSK, AstraZeneca and Novartis. Conflict of interest: J.C. Vazquez reports acting as a consultant/advisor/speaker for GSK, AstraZeneca, Novartis and Boehringer Ingelheim. Conflict of interest: M.C. Cano Salas reports acting as a consultant/advisor/speaker for GSK, AstraZeneca, Novartis and Boehringer Ingelheim. Conflict of interest: J.L. Miguel reports acting as a consultant/advisor/speaker for GSK, AstraZeneca, Novartis and Boehringer Ingelheim. Conflict of interest: C. Celis Preciado reports research grants from Novartis and AstraZeneca. Conflict of interest: A. Acu a Izcaray reports acting as a consultant/advisor/speaker for GSK, AstraZeneca, Novartis and Boehringer Ingelheim. Conflict of interest: M. Barros Monge reports research grants from Novartis, GSK, Boehringer Ingelheim and AstraZeneca, and acting as a consultant/advisor/speaker for GSK, AstraZeneca and Novartis. Conflict of interest: N. Garcia Batista reports acting as a consultant/advisor/speaker for AstraZeneca and Novartis. Conflict of interest: I. Zabert has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: J.L. Mayorga has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: R. Casanova Mendoza has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: M. Gutierrez has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: M.F. Montero Arias reports research grants from Novartis. Conflict of interest: L. Utrecho Perez has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: M. Antunez reports acting as a consultant/advisor/speaker for GSK, AstraZeneca, Novartis and Boehringer Ingelheim. Conflict of interest: V. Williams Derby has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: A. Villatoro Azm quita has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: L. Moti o has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: M.A. De Oliveira has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: D. Rey Sanchez has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: M. Arroyo has nothing to disclose. Conflict of interest: M. Rodriguez has nothing to disclose. PMCID: PMC7836469 Accession Number: 33532459 Abstract: This document constitutes a summary of the clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) prepared at the initiative of the Latin American Thoracic Society (ALAT). Due to new evidence in the treatment of severe asthma, it was agreed to select six clinical questions, and the corresponding recommendations are provided herein. After considering the quality of the evidence, the balance between desirable and undesirable impacts and the feasibility and acceptance of procedures, the following recommendations were established. 1) We do not recommend the use of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) plus formoterol as rescue medication in the treatment of severe asthma. 2) We suggest performing many more high-quality randomised studies to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tiotropium in patients with severe asthma. 3) Omalizumab is recommended in patients with severe uncontrolled allergic asthma with serum IgE levels above 30 IU. 4) Anti-interleukin (IL)-5 drugs are recommended in patients with severe uncontrolled eosinophilic asthma (cut-off values above 150 cells L(-1) for mepolizumab and above 400 cells L(-1) for reslizumab). 5) Benralizumab is recommended in adult patients with severe uncontrolled eosinophilic asthma (cut-off values above 300 cells L(-1)). 6) Dupilumab is recommended in adult patients with severe uncontrolled allergic and eosinophilic asthma and in adult patients with severe corticosteroid-dependent asthma. Notes: 2312-0541 Garc a, Gabriel Bergna, Miguel V squez, Juan C Orcid: 0000-0002-0879-1324 Cano Salas, Maria C Miguel, Jos  L Celis Preciado, Carlos Acu a Izcaray, Agustin Orcid: 0000-0003-3159-6700 Barros Monge, Manuel Garc a Batista, Natalia Zabert, Ignacio Mayorga, Jos  L Casanova Mendoza, Renato Gutierrez, Martha Montero Arias, Maria F Urtecho Perez, Luzcenelia Ant nez, Miguel Williams Derby, Victoria Villatoro Azm quita, Alejandra Moti o, Luis De Oliveira, M Alenita Rey Sanchez, Diana Arroyo, Marisol Rodriguez, Mario Journal Article Review England 2021/02/04 ERJ Open Res. 2021 Jan 18;7(1):00318-2020. doi: 10.1183/23120541.00318-2020. eCollection 2021 Jan. Author Address: Asthma Dept, Latin American Thoracic Society, Montevideo, Uruguay. Respiratory Unit, Hospital Centr ngolo, Vicente L pez, Argentina. Respiratory Unit, Instituto Nacional de Enfermedades Respiratorias, M xico, DF, Mexico. Respiratory Unit, Hospital Universitario San Ignacio, Bogot , Colombia. Pneumology Dept, Hospital Universitario de Caracas, Caracas, Venezuela. Escuela de Medicina, Universidad de Valpara so, Hospital Van Buren, Valparaiso, Chile. Sociedad Dominicana de Neumolog a y Cirug a de T rax, Santiago, Dominican Republic. Asociaci n Argentina de Medicina Respiratoria, Neuqu n, Argentina. A2DAHT Iberoamerican Agency for Development and Assessment of Health Technology, Mexico, DF, Mexico. Sociedad Peruana de Neumolog a, Lima, Per . Sociedad Uruguaya de Neumolog a, Montevideo, Uruguay. Asociaci n Costarricense de Neumolog a y Cirug a de T rax, San Jos , Costa Rica. Asociaci n Nicarag ense de Neumolog a, Nicaragua, Nicaragua. Sociedad Chilena de Enfermedades Respiratorias, Santiago, Chile. Asociaci n Paname a de Neumolog a y Cirug a de T rax, Panam , Panama. Asociaci n Guatemalteca de Neumolog a y Cirug a de T rax, Guatemala, Guatemala. Asociaci n Hondure a de Neumolog a y Cirug a de T rax, Honduras, Honduras. Sociedad Brasilera de Neumolog a y Tisiolog a, S o Paulo, Brasil. Asociaci n Colombiana de Neumolog a y Cirug a de T rax, Bogot , Colombia. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng