Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 161 Author: Griscti Soler, D., Bennici, A., Brunetto, S., Gangemi, S. and Ricciardi, L. Year: 2022 Title: Benralizumab in the management of rare primary eosinophilic lung diseases Journal: Allergy Asthma Proc Volume: 43 Issue: 6 Pages: 494-500 Date: Nov 1 Short Title: Benralizumab in the management of rare primary eosinophilic lung diseases ISSN: 1088-5412 DOI: 10.2500/aap.2022.43.220056 Accession Number: 36335418 Keywords: Humans Child *Churg-Strauss Syndrome/metabolism *Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis/metabolism/therapy *Eosinophilia/drug therapy Eosinophils *Asthma/drug therapy Adrenal Cortex Hormones/therapeutic use Abstract: Background: Eosinophils have a double-edged role in the human body, being essential in important physiologic functions but whose presence is conspicuous in a variety of diseases characterized by a T2 inflammation phenotype. Eosinophils are exquisitely sensitive to corticosteroids, and the latter have, until recently, represented the cornerstone of treatment of eosinophilic diseases. However, most patients remain dependent on oral corticosteroids, with a notable adverse effect burden and experience a chronic relapsing disease that leads to high morbidity and mortality. Treatment prospects have changed with the advent of biologic drugs that target the eosinotropic cytokine interleukin (IL) 5 or its receptor. The success of the latter drugs in severe eosinophilic asthma has paved the way for their use in other, rarer, eosinophilic lung diseases. Recently, mepolizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody that works against IL-5, was approved for the add-on treatment of relapsing-remitting or refractory eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) in patients ages   6 years. Benralizumab, a humanized antibody that binds to the   portion of the IL-5 receptor, is also being tested for its efficacy in EGPA in two clinical trials, after a growing number of case reports and case series supported its use as a steroid-sparing agent in the treatment of EGPA. Methods: In this review, we summarized the scientific literature evaluating the efficacy of benralizumab treatment in patients afflicted with rare primary eosinophilic lung diseases. Results: The literature we found, largely case reports, reported that the use of benralizumab in EGPA, chronic eosinophilic pneumonia (CEP) and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) often led to a depletion of eosinophils, less exacerbations and a decreased systemic corticosteroid burden. No adverse effects were reported. Conclusion: Benralizumab has a prospective role in the treatment of rare eosinophilic lung diseases, which needs to be further elucidated in randomized controlled trials. Notes: 1539-6304 Griscti Soler, Daniel Bennici, Alessandra Brunetto, Silvia Gangemi, Sebastiano Ricciardi, Luisa Journal Article Review United States 2022/11/06 Allergy Asthma Proc. 2022 Nov 1;43(6):494-500. doi: 10.2500/aap.2022.43.220056. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng