Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 174 Author: Hashimoto, S., Kroes, J. A., Eger, K. A., Mau Asam, P. F., Hofstee, H. B., Bendien, S. A., Braunstahl, G. J., Broeders, Meac, Imming, L. M., Langeveld, B., Maitland-van der Zee, A. H., Oud, K. T. M., Patberg, K. W., Smeenk, Fwjm, Romme, Eapm, van Bezouw, M. J., van de Ven, M. J., van Veen, A., van Velzen, E., van Veen, Ihpaa, Weersink, E. J. M., Ten Brinke, A., Sont, J. K. and Bel, E. H. Year: 2022 Title: Real-World Effectiveness of Reslizumab in Patients With Severe Eosinophilic Asthma - First Initiators and Switchers Journal: J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract Volume: 10 Issue: 8 Pages: 2099-2108.e6 Epub Date: 20220426 Date: Aug Short Title: Real-World Effectiveness of Reslizumab in Patients With Severe Eosinophilic Asthma - First Initiators and Switchers DOI: 10.1016/j.jaip.2022.04.014 Accession Number: 35487369 Keywords: Adrenal Cortex Hormones/therapeutic use Adult *Anti-Asthmatic Agents/therapeutic use Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized *Asthma/drug therapy *Biological Products/therapeutic use Humans *Pulmonary Eosinophilia/drug therapy Asthma Biologic therapy Clinical effectiveness Exacerbations Glucocorticoids Il-5 Observational study Registries Reslizumab Survey Abstract: BACKGROUND: Reslizumab, a biologic targeting IL-5, has been shown to reduce asthma exacerbations and maintenance oral corticosteroid use in randomized controlled trials and pre-post studies in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma. However, real-world effectiveness data of reslizumab are scarce, and it is unknown whether reslizumab has added value after switching from another type 2 biologic. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate (1) the real-world effectiveness of reslizumab on severe asthma exacerbations, maintenance oral corticosteroid use, and overall treatment response, both in biologic-naive patients who initiated reslizumab and in those who switched from another type 2 biologic; and (2) physicians' experience with reslizumab treatment. METHODS: This observational real-world study evaluated data from 134 adults with severe eosinophilic asthma included in the Dutch severe asthma registry (RAPSODI), who initiated reslizumab treatment (4-weekly infusions, 0.3 mg/kg) before April 2020 and had follow-up data for 6 months and greater. Clinical asthma experts completed surveys on their experience with reslizumab treatment. RESULTS: Overall, reslizumab reduced the exacerbation rate (odds ratio [95% CI] = 0.10 [0.05-0.21]; P < .001), oral corticosteroid use (OR [95% CI], 0.2 [0.0-0.5]; P < .001), and maintenance dose (median [CI], 5.0 [0.0-10.0] to 0.0 [0.0-5.0]; P < .001), with comparable results in biologic-naive reslizumab initiators and switchers. The overall response to reslizumab was graded good or excellent in 59.2% of patients. The additive effectiveness of reslizumab after switching from another biologic was reflected in physicians' surveys. CONCLUSIONS: Real-world data show that reslizumab reduces severe asthma exacerbations and oral corticosteroid use in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma, both in biologic-naive reslizumab initiators and in those who switched from another type 2 biologic. This additional value of reslizumab was recognized by clinical asthma experts. Notes: 2213-2201 Hashimoto, Simone Kroes, Johannes A Eger, Katrien A Mau Asam, Pearl F Hofstee, Hendrik B Bendien, Sarah A Braunstahl, Gert Jan Broeders, Marielle E A C Imming, Leonie M Langeveld, Bas Maitland-van der Zee, Anke H Oud, Karen T M Patberg, Kornelis Wiebe Smeenk, Frank W J M Romme, Elisabeth A P M van Bezouw, Maarten J van de Ven, Marjo J van Veen, Anneke van Velzen, Edwin van Veen, Ilonka H P A A Weersink, Els J M Ten Brinke, Anneke Sont, Jacob K Bel, Elisabeth H RAPSODI team Journal Article Observational Study Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't United States 2022/04/30 J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2022 Aug;10(8):2099-2108.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.jaip.2022.04.014. Epub 2022 Apr 26. Author Address: Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: S.Hashimoto@amsterdamumc.nl. Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Medical Center Leeuwarden, Leeuwarden, The Netherlands. Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Department of Biomedical Data Sciences, Section Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands. Department of Respiratory Medicine, Haga Teaching Hospital, The Hague, The Netherlands. Franciscus Gasthuis en Vlietland, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Jeroen Bosch Hospital 's-Hertogenbosch, 's-Hertogenbosch, The Netherlands. Department of Pulmonology, Medisch Spectrum Twente, Enschede, The Netherlands. Department of Pulmonology, Deventer Ziekenhuis, Schalkhaar, The Netherlands. Ziekenhuis Gelderse Vallei, Ede, The Netherlands. Department of Pulmonology, Isala Clinics, Zwolle, The Netherlands. Department of Pulmonology, Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, The Netherlands; Department of Educational Development and Research, School of Health Professions Education, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. Department of Pulmonology, Rijnstate Hospital, Arnhem, The Netherlands. Department of Work and Organizational Psychology, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Canisius Wilhelmina Ziekenhuis Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Department of Respiratory Medicine, Meander Medical Center, Amersfoort, The Netherlands. Department of Pulmonology, Leeuwarden Medical Center, Leeuwarden, the Netherlands. Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Amsterdam UMC, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Biomedical Data Sciences, Section Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng