Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 266 Author: Emson, C., Diver, S., Chachi, L., Megally, A., Small, C., Downie, J., Parnes, J. R., Bowen, K., Colice, G. and Brightling, C. E. Year: 2020 Title: CASCADE: a phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial to evaluate the effect of tezepelumab on airway inflammation in patients with uncontrolled asthma Journal: Respir Res Volume: 21 Issue: 1 Pages: 265 Epub Date: 20201013 Date: Oct 13 Short Title: CASCADE: a phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial to evaluate the effect of tezepelumab on airway inflammation in patients with uncontrolled asthma ISSN: 1465-9921 (Print) 1465-9921 DOI: 10.1186/s12931-020-01513-x Legal Note: CEB has received grants and consultancy fees from AstraZeneca. CE, GC, AM, CS and KB are employees of AstraZeneca and own stock and stock options in AstraZeneca. JD and JRP are employees of Amgen Inc. and own stock and stock options in Amgen Inc. SD and LC declare that they have no competing interests. PMCID: PMC7550845 Accession Number: 33050900 Keywords: Adolescent Adult Aged Anti-Asthmatic Agents/adverse effects/*therapeutic use Anti-Inflammatory Agents/adverse effects/*therapeutic use Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/adverse effects/*therapeutic use Asthma/diagnosis/*drug therapy/immunology Clinical Trials, Phase II as Topic Double-Blind Method Female Humans Male Middle Aged Multicenter Studies as Topic Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic Treatment Outcome Young Adult Asthma T2 inflammation Tslp Tezepelumab Abstract: BACKGROUND: Patients with severe, uncontrolled asthma, particularly those with a non-eosinophilic phenotype, have a great unmet need for new treatments that act on a broad range of inflammatory pathways in the airway. Tezepelumab is a human monoclonal antibody that blocks the activity of thymic stromal lymphopoietin, an epithelial cytokine. In the PATHWAY phase 2b study (NCT02054130), tezepelumab reduced exacerbations by up to 71% in adults with severe, uncontrolled asthma, irrespective of baseline eosinophilic inflammatory status. This article reports the design and objectives of the phase 2 CASCADE study. METHODS: CASCADE is an ongoing exploratory, phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study aiming to assess the anti-inflammatory effects of tezepelumab 210 mg administered subcutaneously every 4 weeks for 28 weeks in adults aged 18-75 years with uncontrolled, moderate-to-severe asthma. The primary endpoint is the change from baseline to week 28 in airway submucosal inflammatory cells (eosinophils, neutrophils, T cells and mast cells) from bronchoscopic biopsies. Epithelial molecular phenotyping, comprising the three-gene-mean technique, will be used to assess participants' type 2 (T2) status to enable evaluation of the anti-inflammatory effect of tezepelumab across the continuum of T2 activation. Other exploratory analyses include assessments of the impact of tezepelumab on airway remodelling, including reticular basement membrane thickening and airway epithelial integrity. At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, the protocol was amended to address the possibility that site visits would be limited. The amendment allowed for: at-home dosing of study drug by a healthcare professional, extension of the treatment period by up to 6 months so patients are able to attend an onsite visit to undergo the end-of-treatment bronchoscopy, and replacement of final follow-up visits with a virtual or telephone visit. DISCUSSION: CASCADE aims to determine the mechanisms by which tezepelumab improves clinical asthma outcomes by evaluating the effect of tezepelumab on airway inflammatory cells and remodelling in patients with moderate-to-severe, uncontrolled asthma. An important aspect of this study is the evaluation of the anti-inflammatory effect of tezepelumab across patients with differing levels of eosinophilic and T2 inflammation. TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT03688074 (ClinicalTrials.gov). Registered 28 September 2018. Notes: 1465-993x Emson, Claire Diver, Sarah Chachi, Latifa Megally, Ayman Small, Cherrie Downie, John Parnes, Jane R Bowen, Karin Colice, Gene Brightling, Chris E Clinical Trial Protocol Journal Article England 2020/10/15 Respir Res. 2020 Oct 13;21(1):265. doi: 10.1186/s12931-020-01513-x. Author Address: Translational Science and Experimental Medicine, Research & Early Development, Respiratory & Immunology, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, MD, USA. Claire.emson@astrazeneca.com. University of Leicester, Leicester, UK. Respiratory & Immunology, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, MD, USA. Development Operations, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. Amgen, Thousand Oaks, CA, USA. Biometrics, Respiratory & Immunology, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, MD, USA. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng