Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 239 Author: Guntur, V. P., Manka, L. A., Denson, J. L., Dunn, R. M., Dollin, Y. T., Gill, M., Kolakowski, C., Strand, M. J. and Wechsler, M. E. Year: 2021 Title: Benralizumab as a Steroid-Sparing Treatment Option in Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis Journal: J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract Volume: 9 Issue: 3 Pages: 1186-1193.e1 Epub Date: 20201014 Date: Mar Short Title: Benralizumab as a Steroid-Sparing Treatment Option in Eosinophilic Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis DOI: 10.1016/j.jaip.2020.09.054 Accession Number: 33065367 Keywords: Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized *Churg-Strauss Syndrome/diagnosis/drug therapy *Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis Humans Pilot Projects Prospective Studies Steroids Benralizumab Biologic therapy Churg-Strauss syndrome Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) Monoclonal antibody Abstract: BACKGROUND: Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) is a vasculitis associated with significant morbidity and mortality that has historically been treated with systemic corticosteroids and immunosuppressants. The IL-5 antagonist mepolizumab was Food and Drug Administration approved in 2017 after demonstrating safety and efficacy in EGPA. We hypothesized that benralizumab, an IL-5 receptor antagonist approved for eosinophilic asthma, would demonstrate safety and efficacy in EGPA. OBJECTIVES: To determine the safety and efficacy of benralizumab in EGPA as measured by reduction in oral corticosteroid dose and EGPA exacerbations. METHODS: We conducted a prospective 40-week open-label pilot study of benralizumab 30 mg administered subcutaneously in 10 patients with EGPA. Adverse events, oral corticosteroid dosing, exacerbations, and lung function were evaluated before, during, and after benralizumab treatment. Paired tests and tests derived from longitudinal models were used to compare outcome variables between phases or visits. RESULTS: Benralizumab was well tolerated and resulted in reduction of median corticosteroid dose from 15 mg at the start to 2 mg at the end of treatment. Geometric mean corticosteroid dose was reduced from 11.6 mg during pretreatment to 6.3 mg during treatment phase. Five patients were able to achieve a dose of 0 mg. Mean annualized exacerbation rate was lowest during the treatment (1.5) compared with the pre- and posttreatment phases (4.6, P = .008 for treatment vs pre- and postphases combined). CONCLUSIONS: Benralizumab was well tolerated, facilitated oral corticosteroid reduction, and reduced exacerbations in EGPA. Larger controlled trials are warranted to further evaluate the role of benralizumab in EGPA. Notes: 2213-2201 Guntur, Vamsi P Manka, Laurie A Denson, Joshua L Dunn, Ryan M Dollin, Yeshai T Gill, Mary Kolakowski, Christena Strand, Matthew J Wechsler, Michael E Clinical Trial Journal Article Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't United States 2020/10/17 J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2021 Mar;9(3):1186-1193.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jaip.2020.09.054. Epub 2020 Oct 14. Author Address: Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, National Jewish Health, The NJH Cohen Family Asthma Institute, Denver, Colo. Division of Pulmonary Diseases, Critical Care & Environmental Medicine, Tulane University, New Orleans, La. Department of Medicine, Illinois Lung and Critical Care Institute, OSF Healthcare, Peoria, Ill. Department of Medicine, University of Colorado School of Medicine at Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, Colo. Division of Biostatistics, National Jewish Health, Denver, Colo. Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, National Jewish Health, The NJH Cohen Family Asthma Institute, Denver, Colo. Electronic address: WechslerM@NJHealth.org. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng