Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 153 Author: Faverio, P., Ronco, R., Monzio Compagnoni, M., Franchi, M., Franco, G., Bonaiti, G., Bonifazi, M., Mei, F., Luppi, F., Pesci, A. and Corrao, G. Year: 2023 Title: Effectiveness and economic impact of Dupilumab in asthma: a population-based cohort study Journal: Respir Res Volume: 24 Issue: 1 Pages: 70 Epub Date: 20230307 Date: Mar 7 Short Title: Effectiveness and economic impact of Dupilumab in asthma: a population-based cohort study ISSN: 1465-9921 (Print) 1465-9921 DOI: 10.1186/s12931-023-02372-y Legal Note: GC received research support from the European Community (EC), the Italian Medicines Agency (AIFA), and the Italian Ministry of Education, Universities and Research (MIUR). He took part in a variety of projects that were funded by pharmaceutical companies (Novartis, GSK, Roche, AMGEN and BMS). He also received honoraria as a member of the Advisory Board of Roche. No other potential conflicts of interest were declared for the other authors. PMCID: PMC9990964 Accession Number: 36882834 Keywords: Humans *Anti-Asthmatic Agents/adverse effects Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/adverse effects *Asthma/diagnosis/drug therapy/epidemiology Cohort Studies Asthma Clinical allergy and immunology Inflammation Abstract: RATIONALE: Severe asthma is burdened by relevant socio-economic and clinical impact. Randomized controlled trials on Dupilumab showed efficacy and a good safety profile, but post-market studies are needed. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the impact of Dupilumab on (i) the use of anti-asthmatic drugs, including oral corticosteroids (OCS), (ii) the rates of asthma exacerbation-related hospital admissions, and (iii) the healthcare costs in patients with asthma. METHODS: Data were retrieved from Healthcare Utilization database of Lombardy region (Italy). We compared healthcare resources use between the 6 months after Dupilumab initiation ("post-intervention period") and (i) the 6 months before Dupilumab initiation ("wash-out period") and (ii) the corresponding 6 months of the prior year ("pre-intervention period"). MAIN RESULTS: In a cohort of 176 patients, Dupilumab significantly reduced anti-asthmatic drugs use (including OCS and short-acting  2-agonists, inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)/long-acting  2-agonists and ICS alone) when comparing the "pre-intervention" to the "post-intervention" period. When considering hospital admissions, we observed a not statistically or marginally significant reduction between both periods before Dupilumab and the post-intervention period. Six-months discontinuation rate was 8%. Overall healthcare costs had a tenfold increase between the "pre-intervention" and "post-intervention" period, which was mainly led by the biologic drug cost. Conversely, expenditures connected to hospital admissions did not change. CONCLUSIONS: Our real-world investigation suggests that Dupilumab reduced anti-asthmatic drugs use, including OCS, in comparison to a corresponding period in the prior year. However, long-term healthcare sustainability remains an open issue. Notes: 1465-993x Faverio, Paola Ronco, Raffaella Monzio Compagnoni, Matteo Franchi, Matteo Franco, Giovanni Bonaiti, Giulia Bonifazi, Martina Mei, Federico Luppi, Fabrizio Pesci, Alberto Corrao, Giovanni Evaluation Study Journal Article England 2023/03/08 Respir Res. 2023 Mar 7;24(1):70. doi: 10.1186/s12931-023-02372-y. Author Address: Department of Medicine and Surgery, School of Medicine and Surgery, Universit  Degli Studi di Milano Bicocca, Monza, Italy. paola.faverio@unimib.it. Respiratory Unit, Fondazione IRCCS San Gerardo Dei Tintori, Via Pergolesi 33, 20900, Monza, Italy. paola.faverio@unimib.it. National Centre for Healthcare Research and Pharmacoepidemiology, University of Milano-Bicocca, Milan, Italy. Laboratory of Healthcare Research and Pharmacoepidemiology, Unit of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Public Health, Department of Statistics and Quantitative Methods, University of Milano-Bicocca, Milan, Italy. Department of Medicine and Surgery, School of Medicine and Surgery, Universit  Degli Studi di Milano Bicocca, Monza, Italy. Department of Biomedical Sciences and Public Health, Universit  Politecnica Delle Marche-Respiratory Diseases Unit, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Ospedali Riuniti, Ancona, Italy. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng