Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 339 Author: De Prado Gomez, L., Pavord, I., Busse, W., Brightling, C. E., Wechsler, M. E., Rabe, K. F., Zhang, M., Xing, J., Jacob-Nara, J. A. and Rowe, P. J. Year: 2023 Title: Long-term effect of dupilumab on prevention of lung function decline in patients with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe asthma: ATLAS trial design Journal: ERJ Open Res Volume: 9 Issue: 2 Epub Date: 20230306 Date: Mar Short Title: Long-term effect of dupilumab on prevention of lung function decline in patients with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe asthma: ATLAS trial design ISSN: 2312-0541 (Print) 2312-0541 DOI: 10.1183/23120541.00417-2022 Legal Note: Conflict of interest: L. De Prado Gomez, M. Zhang, J. Xing, J.A. Jacob-Nara and P.J. Rowe are employees of Sanofi, and may hold stock and/or stock options in the company. I. Pavord has received speaker fees from Aerocrine, Almirall, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, GSK, Novartis, Sanofi/Regeneron and Teva; payments for organising educational events from AstraZeneca, GSK, Sanofi/Regeneron and Teva; consultancy fees from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, Circassia, Genentech, GSK, Knopp Biosciences, Merck, Novartis, Sanofi/Regeneron and Teva; international scientific meeting sponsorship from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, GSK and Teva; a research grant from Chiesi; and payments to support Food and Drug Administration approval meetings from GSK; payments for use of the Leicester Cough Questionnaire (of which he is a co-patent holder of the rights) in clinical trials from Bayer, Insmed and Merck. He served as an expert witness for a patent dispute involving AstraZeneca and Teva. W. Busse has received consultancy and speaker fees from GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, Sanofi and Teva. C.E. Brightling has received grants and consultancy fees from GSK, AstraZeneca, Novartis, Chiesi, BI, Genentech, Roche, Sanofi, Regeneron, Mologic and 4DPharma, paid to his institution. M.E. Wechsler has received consulting fees and honoraria from AstraZeneca, Amgen, GlaxoSmithKline, Sanofi, Regeneron, Boehringer Ingelheim, Novartis, Genentech, Pulmatrix, Teva, Equillium, Cytoreason, Restorbio, Cohero Health, Cerecor, Incyte, Sound Biologics and Kinaset. K.F. Rabe has received consultancy and speaker fees from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Novartis, Sanofi and Teva. PMCID: PMC9986762 Accession Number: 36891077 Abstract: BACKGROUND: Many patients with asthma experience loss of lung function over time, and in certain patients this can lead to progressive obstructive patterns similar to COPD. Patients with severe asthma may experience accelerated lung function decline (LFD). However, characteristics and risk factors for LFD in asthma have not been well described. Dupilumab may prevent or slow the rate of LFD in patients with uncontrolled, moderate-to-severe asthma. ATLAS trial is designed to evaluate the role of dupilumab in preventing/slowing LFD over a period of 3 years versus standard-of-care therapy. METHODS: ATLAS (clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT05097287) is a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre study that will include adult patients with uncontrolled moderate-to-severe asthma.  1828 patients will be randomised (2:1) to dupilumab 300 mg or placebo in combination with maintenance therapy every 2 weeks for 3 years. The primary objective is to assess the effect of dupilumab on preventing or slowing LFD by year 1 in the exhaled nitric oxide fraction (F (eNO)) population (patients with F (eNO)  35 ppb). The effect of dupilumab in slowing the rate of LFD by year 2 and year 3 in both F (eNO) and total populations, exacerbations, asthma control, quality of life, biomarker changes and utility of F (eNO) as a biomarker of LFD will also be evaluated. DISCUSSION: ATLAS is the first trial assessing the effect of a biologic on LFD, designed to establish the role of dupilumab in prevention of long-term loss of lung function and its potential effect on disease modification, which may provide unique insights into asthma pathophysiology, including predictive and prognostic factors of LFD. Notes: 2312-0541 De Prado Gomez, Lucia Orcid: 0000-0002-9464-2201 Pavord, Ian Busse, William Brightling, Christopher E Wechsler, Michael E Rabe, Klaus F Zhang, Mei Xing, Jun Jacob-Nara, Juby A Rowe, Paul J Journal Article England 2023/03/10 ERJ Open Res. 2023 Mar 6;9(2):00417-2022. doi: 10.1183/23120541.00417-2022. eCollection 2023 Mar. Author Address: Sanofi, Reading, UK. NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. UW Allergy, Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA. Institute for Lung Health, NIHR Leicester Biomedical Research Center, Department of Respiratory Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK. National Jewish Health, Denver, CO, USA. LungenClinic Grosshansdorf (member of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL)), Airway Research Center North (ARCN), Grosshansdorf, Germany. Christian-Albrechts University (member of the DZL), ARCN, Kiel, Germany. Sanofi, Bridgewater, NJ, USA. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng