Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 37 Author: Chu, A. W. L., Wong, M. M., Rayner, D. G., Guyatt, G. H., D az Martinez, J. P., Ceccacci, R., Zhao, I. X., McMullen, E., Srivastava, A., Wang, J., Wen, A., Wang, F. C., Brignardello-Petersen, R., Izcovich, A., Oykhman, P., Wheeler, K. E., Wang, J., Spergel, J. M., Singh, J. A., Silverberg, J. I., Ong, P. Y., O'Brien, M., Martin, S. A., Lio, P. A., Lind, M. L., LeBovidge, J., Kim, E., Huynh, J., Greenhawt, M., Gardner, D. D., Frazier, W. T., Ellison, K., Chen, L., Capozza, K., De Benedetto, A., Boguniewicz, M., Smith Begolka, W., Asiniwasis, R. N., Schneider, L. C. and Chu, D. K. Year: 2023 Title: Systemic treatments for atopic dermatitis (eczema): Systematic review and network meta-analysis of randomized trials Journal: J Allergy Clin Immunol Volume: 152 Issue: 6 Pages: 1470-1492 Epub Date: 20230909 Date: Dec Short Title: Systemic treatments for atopic dermatitis (eczema): Systematic review and network meta-analysis of randomized trials ISSN: 0091-6749 DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2023.08.029 Accession Number: 37678577 Keywords: Humans *Dermatitis, Atopic/drug therapy Network Meta-Analysis Quality of Life Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic *Eczema *Asthma Treatment Outcome Atopic dermatitis (eczema) Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors (upadacitinib, abrocitinib, baricitinib), patient-important outcomes and adverse events or adverse reactions, disease severity, itch, sleep, itch and sleep disturbance quality of life network meta-analysis (comparative effectiveness, multiple treatment comparison) systemic treatments and phototherapy (light therapy, immunosuppressants, immunomodulators, DMARDs, cyclosporine, methotrexate, azathioprine, mycophenolate, cortiosteroids, narrow-band UVB), biologics (dupilumab, lebrikizumab, tralokinumab, nemolizumab) Abstract: BACKGROUND: Atopic dermatitis (AD) is an inflammatory skin condition with multiple systemic treatments and uncertainty regarding their comparative impact on AD outcomes. OBJECTIVE: We sought to systematically synthesize the benefits and harms of AD systemic treatments. METHODS: For the 2023 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology and American College of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology Joint Task Force on Practice Parameters AD guidelines, we searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, CENTRAL, Web of Science, and GREAT databases from inception to November 29, 2022, for randomized trials addressing systemic treatments and phototherapy for AD. Paired reviewers independently screened records, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias. Random-effects network meta-analyses addressed AD severity, itch, sleep, AD-related quality of life, flares, and harms. The Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation approach informed certainty of evidence ratings. This review is registered in the Open Science Framework (https://osf.io/e5sna). RESULTS: The 149 included trials (28,686 patients with moderate-to-severe AD) evaluated 75 interventions. With high-certainty evidence, high-dose upadacitinib was among the most effective for 5 of 6 patient-important outcomes; high-dose abrocitinib and low-dose upadacitinib were among the most effective for 2 outcomes. These Janus kinase inhibitors were among the most harmful in increasing adverse events. With high-certainty evidence, dupilumab, lebrikizumab, and tralokinumab were of intermediate effectiveness and among the safest, modestly increasing conjunctivitis. Low-dose baricitinib was among the least effective. Efficacy and safety of azathioprine, oral corticosteroids, cyclosporine, methotrexate, mycophenolate, phototherapy, and many novel agents are less certain. CONCLUSIONS: Among individuals with moderate-to-severe AD, high-certainty evidence demonstrates that high-dose upadacitinib is among the most effective in addressing multiple patient-important outcomes, but also is among the most harmful. High-dose abrocitinib and low-dose upadacitinib are effective, but also among the most harmful. Dupilumab, lebrikizumab, and tralokinumab are of intermediate effectiveness and have favorable safety. Notes: 1097-6825 Chu, Alexandro W L Wong, Melanie M Rayner, Daniel G Guyatt, Gordon H D az Martinez, Juan Pablo Ceccacci, Renata Zhao, Irene X McMullen, Eric Srivastava, Archita Wang, Jason Wen, Aaron Wang, Fang Chi Brignardello-Petersen, Romina Izcovich, Ariel Oykhman, Paul Wheeler, Kathryn E Wang, Julie Spergel, Jonathan M Singh, Jasvinder A Silverberg, Jonathan I Ong, Peck Y O'Brien, Monica Martin, Stephen A Lio, Peter A Lind, Mary Laura LeBovidge, Jennifer Kim, Elaine Huynh, Joey Greenhawt, Matthew Gardner, Donna D Frazier, Winfred T Ellison, Kathy Chen, Lina Capozza, Korey De Benedetto, Anna Boguniewicz, Mark Smith Begolka, Wendy Asiniwasis, Rachel N Schneider, Lynda C Chu, Derek K Journal Article Meta-Analysis Systematic Review United States 2023/09/08 J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2023 Dec;152(6):1470-1492. doi: 10.1016/j.jaci.2023.08.029. Epub 2023 Sep 9. Author Address: Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; Evidence in Allergy Group, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada. Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada. Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; Evidence in Allergy Group, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada. Evidence in Allergy Group, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; Department of Internal Medicine, Western University, London, Canada. Evidence in Allergy Group, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; Schulich School of Medicine & Dentistry, Western University, London, Canada. Servicio de Cl nica M dica, Hospital Aleman, Buenos Aires, Argentina. Department of Pediatrics, University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla. Division of Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, Department of Pediatrics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY. Department of Pediatrics, Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa; Division of Allergy and Immunology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pa. Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Ala. Department of Dermatology, The George Washington University School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Washington, DC. Division of Clinical Immunology and Allergy, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, Calif; Department of Pediatrics, Keck School of Medicine of USC, Los Angeles, Calif. Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass. UMass Chan Medical School, Worcester, Mass. Department of Dermatology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Ill; Department of Pediatrics, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Ill. School for Engineering of Matter, Transport and Energy, Arizona State University, Tempe, Ariz. Division of Immunology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Mass; Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass. Toronto, Canada. Sepulveda VA Medical Center, North Hills, Calif. Department of Pediatrics, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, Colo; Section of Allergy and Immunology, Children's Hospital Colorado, Aurora, Colo. Allergy & Asthma Network, Fairfax, Va. Department of Family Medicine, UPMC St. Margaret, Pittsburgh, Pa. Westerville, Ohio. Evidence in Allergy Group, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada. Global Parents for Eczema Research, Santa Barbara, Calif. Department of Dermatology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY. Department of Pediatrics, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, Colo; Division of Pediatric Allergy and Clinical Immunology, National Jewish Health, Denver, Colo. National Eczema Association, Novato, Calif. Department of Dermatology, University of Saskatchewan, Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada. Division of Immunology, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston, Mass. Department of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; Evidence in Allergy Group, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; Department of Health Research Methods, Evidence, and Impact, McMaster University, Hamilton, Canada; The Research Institute of St. Joe's Hamilton, Hamilton, Canada. Electronic address: chudk@mcmaster.ca. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng