Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 181 Author: D vila Gonz lez, I., Moreno Ben tez, F. and Quirce, S. Year: 2019 Title: Benralizumab: A New Approach for the Treatment of Severe Eosinophilic Asthma Journal: J Investig Allergol Clin Immunol Volume: 29 Issue: 2 Pages: 84-93 Date: Apr Short Title: Benralizumab: A New Approach for the Treatment of Severe Eosinophilic Asthma ISSN: 1018-9068 (Print) 1018-9068 DOI: 10.18176/jiaci.0385 Accession Number: 31017107 Keywords: Anti-Asthmatic Agents/administration & dosage/adverse effects/*therapeutic use Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/administration & dosage/adverse effects/*therapeutic use Asthma/diagnosis/*drug therapy/immunology Basophils/*drug effects/immunology/metabolism Clinical Trials as Topic Drug Therapy, Combination Eosinophilia/diagnosis/*drug therapy/immunology Humans Phenotype Research Symptom Assessment Treatment Outcome Basophils Eosinophils Exacerbations Ilc-2 Abstract: Eosinophilic asthma is the most common phenotype of severe asthma. It is characterized by abnormal production and release of type 2 cytokines from T helper type 2 (TH2) lymphocytes and type 2 innate lymphoid cells, such as IL-5. This leads to a persistent increase and activation of eosinophils in blood and the airways despite treatment with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids. Eosinophil differentiation, survival, and activation are preferentially regulated by IL-5, a cytokine that binds to the IL-5 receptor (IL-5R), which is located on the surface of eosinophils or basophils and plays a critical role in the pathogenesis and severity of asthma. Benralizumab is a monoclonal antibody that binds to IL-5R via its Fab domain, blocking the binding of IL-5 to its receptor and resulting in inhibition of eosinophil differentiation and maturation in bone marrow. In addition, this antibody is able to bind through its afucosylated Fc domain to the RIIIa region of the Fcy receptor on NK cells, macrophages, and neutrophils, thus strongly inducing antibody-dependent, cell-mediated cytotoxicity in both circulating and tissue-resident eosinophils. This double function of benralizumab induces almost complete fast and maintained depletion of eosinophils that is much greater than that induced by other monoclonal antibodies targeting the IL-5 pathway, such as mepolizumab and reslizumab. This review focuses on benralizumab as an alternative to other agents targeting the IL-5 pathway in the treatment of eosinophilic asthma. Notes: D vila Gonz lez, I Moreno Ben tez, F Quirce, S Journal Article Review Spain 2019/04/25 J Investig Allergol Clin Immunol. 2019 Apr;29(2):84-93. doi: 10.18176/jiaci.0385. Author Address: Allergy Service, University Hospital of Salamanca, School of Medicine, University of Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain. Immunology and Allergy Unit, Cl nica Lobat n, C diz, Spain; Grupo Asociado AS03 Inmunolog a y Alergia, associated with IN-CO16 INIBICA (Instituto Biom dico de C diz), C diz, Spain. Department of Allergy, Hospital Universitario La Paz Institute for Health Research (IdiPAZ) and CIBER of Respiratory Diseases (CIBERES), Madrid, Spain. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng