Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 7 Author: Furuta, S., Iwamoto, T. and Nakajima, H. Year: 2019 Title: Update on eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis Journal: Allergol Int Volume: 68 Issue: 4 Pages: 430-436 Epub Date: 20190629 Date: Oct Short Title: Update on eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis ISSN: 1323-8930 DOI: 10.1016/j.alit.2019.06.004 Accession Number: 31266709 Keywords: Antibodies, Antineutrophil Cytoplasmic/immunology Biomarkers Biopsy Diagnosis, Differential Disease Susceptibility Eosinophilia/*pathology Eosinophils/immunology/metabolism/pathology Female Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis/*diagnosis/*etiology/*therapy Humans Male Middle Aged Phenotype Anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis Eosinophil Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis Mepolizumab Rituximab Abstract: Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) (formerly Churg-Strauss syndrome) is a rare form of anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis characterized by eosinophil-rich granulomatous inflammation and small to medium-size vessel vasculitis associated with bronchial asthma and eosinophilia. Its rarity and unique features such as eosinophilic inflammation have delayed progress of research regarding EGPA for several years, compared to other forms of ANCA-associated vasculitis. However, recently, attention to EGPA as a research subject has been gradually increasing. To resolve problems in existing criteria for EGPA, new classification criteria for EGPA generated by a large international cohort will be launched and is being expected to accelerate future studies. Pathogenesis and roles of ANCA in EGPA are still largely unknown; however, it has been reported that glomerulonephritis is more frequent in ANCA-positive patients than in ANCA-negative patients, while heart failure is more frequent in ANCA-negative patients than in ANCA-positive patients. In addition, a recent genome-wide association study has suggested the presence of two genetically distinct subgroups of EGPA, which correspond to ANCA-positive and -negative subgroups. Although responses to glucocorticoids in EGPA are generally good, patients with EGPA often experience a relapse. Currently, there is no standard therapy for EGPA based on accumulation of clinical trial results. Recently, clinical benefits of mepolizumab for EGPA were proved by a randomized controlled trial and mepolizumab was approved for EGPA. In addition, various new drugs are under evaluation. To find optimal use of these drugs and to resolve unmet needs, such as relapse prevention, will be needed in future. Notes: 1440-1592 Furuta, Shunsuke Iwamoto, Taro Nakajima, Hiroshi Journal Article Review England 2019/07/04 Allergol Int. 2019 Oct;68(4):430-436. doi: 10.1016/j.alit.2019.06.004. Epub 2019 Jun 29. Author Address: Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Chiba University Hospital, Chiba, Japan. Electronic address: shfuruta@chiba-u.jp. Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Chiba University Hospital, Chiba, Japan. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng