Reference Type:  Journal Article Record Number: 438 Author: Flood-Page, P., Menzies-Gow, A., Phipps, S., Ying, S., Wangoo, A., Ludwig, M. S., Barnes, N., Robinson, D. and Kay, A. B. Year: 2003 Title: Anti-IL-5 treatment reduces deposition of ECM proteins in the bronchial subepithelial basement membrane of mild atopic asthmatics Journal: J Clin Invest Volume: 112 Issue: 7 Pages: 1029-36 Date: Oct Short Title: Anti-IL-5 treatment reduces deposition of ECM proteins in the bronchial subepithelial basement membrane of mild atopic asthmatics ISSN: 0021-9738 (Print) 0021-9738 DOI: 10.1172/jci17974 PMCID: PMC198522 Accession Number: 14523040 Keywords: Antibodies, Monoclonal/*therapeutic use Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized Asthma/metabolism/*therapy Basement Membrane/metabolism Bronchi/*metabolism Chondroitin Sulfate Proteoglycans/analysis Collagen Type III/analysis Double-Blind Method Eosinophils/*physiology Extracellular Matrix Proteins/*metabolism Humans Immunohistochemistry Interleukin-5/*antagonists & inhibitors Keratan Sulfate/analysis Lumican RNA, Messenger Tenascin/analysis Transforming Growth Factor beta Transforming Growth Factor beta1 Abstract: Eosinophil-derived TGF-beta has been implicated in remodeling events in asthma. We hypothesized that reduction of bronchial mucosal eosinophils with anti-IL-5 would reduce markers of airway remodeling. Bronchial biopsies were obtained before and after three infusions of a humanized, anti-IL-5 monoclonal antibody (mepolizumab) in 24 atopic asthmatics in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The thickness and density of tenascin, lumican, and procollagen III in the reticular basement membrane (RBM) were quantified immunohistochemically by confocal microscopy. Expression of TGF-beta1 mRNA by airway eosinophils was assessed by in situ hybridization, and TGF-beta1 protein was measured in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid by ELISA. At baseline, airway eosinophil infiltration and ECM protein deposition was increased in the RBM of asthmatics compared with nonasthmatic controls. Treating asthmatics with anti-IL-5 antibody, which specifically decreased airway eosinophil numbers, significantly reduced the expression of tenascin, lumican, and procollagen III in the bronchial mucosal RBM when compared with placebo. In addition, anti-IL-5 treatment was associated with a significant reduction in the numbers and percentage of airway eosinophils expressing mRNA for TGF-beta1 and the concentration of TGF-beta1 in BAL fluid. Therefore eosinophils may contribute to tissue remodeling processes in asthma by regulating the deposition of ECM proteins. Notes: Flood-Page, Patrick Menzies-Gow, Andrew Phipps, Simon Ying, Sun Wangoo, Arun Ludwig, Mara S Barnes, Neil Robinson, Douglas Kay, A Barry WT_/Wellcome Trust/United Kingdom Clinical Trial Journal Article Randomized Controlled Trial Research Support, Non-U.S. Gov't United States 2003/10/03 J Clin Invest. 2003 Oct;112(7):1029-36. doi: 10.1172/JCI17974. Author Address: Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Imperial College London, National Heart and Lung Institute, London, United Kingdom. Database Provider: NLM Language: eng